GNOME II. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9
------------------------------------ 

Gnome II: Ingrid's Back
----------------------- 

Contents
--------

Getting started .................................................. ? 
Preface .......................................................... ? 
Talking to the game .............................................. ? 
Hints ............................................................ ?
Official Secrets ................................................. ? 
Loading Instructions ............................................. ? 
Background ....................................................... ?
The Second Gnettlefield Journal .................................. ? 

CREDITS
-------

Ingrid design: Pete Austin, Peter McBride, Godfrey Dowson. 
Game design and management: Pete Austin.
Game programming and game text: Graham Jones. 
Diary translation and game text polishing: Peter McBride. 
Cover Picture: Godfrey Dowson. 
Computer Art: Dicken Peeke. 
Systems: Mike and Nick Austin, John Jones-Steele, Mike Bryant. 
Transport to your Micro: Nick Austin and Mike Bryant. 
Published by: Level 9, PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare BS24 9UR. 


Getting started
---------------

    If you have not played a Level 9 adventure before, please read 
all these instructions. If you are an experienced Level 9 adventurer, 
skip to the preface and just read that. 

Boot the disc or load the first cassette to start the game. If you 
don't know how to do this, see the loading instructions on Page ??. 

When the game prints "What gnow?" or ">", it is waiting for you to 
type a command. (The game also waits when it has more text to print 
than will fit on the screen at one time; read what's displayed and 
press either SHIFT or SPACE to continue).

This game knows four types of commands: 

* Movement: just type the direction you want to go: NORTH, NORTHEAST, 
  EAST (and the other compass directions), IN, OUT, UP, DOWN or 
  ACROSS. GO or RUN take you to a named place, e.g GO TO INN, 
  and FOLLOW is self-explanatory. 

* Actions: e.g LOOK, TAKE THE PETITION, SIGN IT, DROP IT, EXAMINE 
  THE CASK, WEAR THE HAT, DRINK THE CIDER, or GIVE CARROT TO BUMPY. 

* System commands. EXITS, INVENTORY and SCORE give information; 
  WORDS, PICTURES, BRIEF, VERBOSE, EXITS ON and EXITS OFF control 
  what is output; UNDO; SAVE, RESTORE, RAM SAVE and RAM RESTORE 
  save your position or return to an earlier position, and RESTART 
  stops the game. See the example game, later, for more details. 

* Commands to others. Ingrid could command a few people, such as 
  Flopsy her dog, but most gnomes were wary of her talent for 
  disaster and tried not to get involved. Type their name, followed 
  by commands, e.g FLOPSY, GO NORTH, GET EVERYTHING, THEN FOLLOW ME.            

You can abbreviate commands, e.g SOUTH to S and SOUTHEAST to SE, and 
even type several commands on one line, e.g EAST, TAKE ALL, WEST. 
After typing a command (or commands), press the ENTER or RETURN key. 


Preface
-------

"Gnome Ranger" told how Ingrid Bottomlow returned from the Institute 
of Gnome Economics, full of schemes to improve life, and succeeded 
in demolishing most of the family farm. "Accidentally" banished by 
her exasperated family, Ingrid had more success with putting the 
wilderness to rights, and even stopped a war or two. 

"Gnome II" starts when Ingrid's back in Little Moaning, and tells 
how she stopped the plans of Jasper Quickbuck, money-grabbing lord 
of Ridley's Manor, to steamroll the gnome-belt village for an estate 
of yuppie homes. 

Ingrid Bottomlow's Second Gnettlefield Journal is an introduction. 
Then, part 1 of the game describes Ingrid's attempts to get her 
fellow gnomes to sign a petition against the planned eviction. The 
next part concerns the defence of Gnettlefield farm and then, in 
part 3, Ingrid infiltrates Ridley's manor. 

Hints for part 1:
* Only Flopsy trusts Ingrid. 
* To get someone to sign, try e.g "give petition to Jumbo". 
* Don't collect signatures from outsiders. 

Hints for part 2:
* Noah has been known to lie down on the job, but follows instructions. 
* Stop the steamroller, then trap the trolls. 

Hint for part 3": 
* Cousin Daisy my be of help. 

If you are really stuck, you can get a comprehensive free cluesheet, 
with hundreds of hints, from Official Secrets (see Page ??), or 
direct from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, Avon BS24 9UR 
England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the packaging and 
provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope (UK users), or 
four International reply coupons (overseas users). 


Talking to the game
-------------------

As you have seen, this game understands a lot of commands. The 
following list is only part of its vocabulary, but it gives an idea 
of what to try: 
              
North, northeast, east (and other compass directions), up, down, in, 
out, across, climb, go, run, follow, again, attack, inventory, quit, 
save, restore, ram save, ram restore, undo, score, wait, shout, 
search, examine, blink, look, kneel, take, drop, wear, throw, give, 
fill, empty, open, unlock, close, eat, drink, light, press, wave, 
blow, exits, words, pictures, brief, verbose. 
 
Many words can be abbreviated, e.g "inventory" to "inv". 
       
The following example is not from the game but it illustrates 
how to play. The player's commands are in capitals, after each ">" 
of "What now?" prompt, and text in square brackets is comments... 

  Ingrid struggled from the rubble of Low Moan farm and brushed 
herself down. All gnew projects had little teething troubles, and 
fortunately the farmhouse had gneeded redecorating anyway. 

Muffled shouts announced that Mrs Downtrodden was unharmed, just 
trapped in the cellar of her former home, so Ingrid cheerily called, 
"Don't worry! Trust me and I'll soon get you free". 

There was a pause, then much louder shouting. But Ingrid had gnot 
waited to be thanked and was already away down the road. 

> LOOK 
Ingrid was standing near the top of Ploughgnomes' Lane, looking down 
towards the village of Little Moaning. She could see Flopsy. 

Flopsy bounded around Ingrid, barking happily. 

> EXAMINE FLOPSY 
Flopsy was the Bottomlow's cart dog; a Yuletide present from Ingrid 
to her parents. They had wanted a gnice, quiet, small dog, but 
instead got this bouncy monster with flopping ears. However, Ingrid 
thought she was wonderful. 

> FLOPSY, FOLLOW ME
Flopsy nodded and licked Ingrid's face. 

> UP 
Ingrid went uphill and reached the summit of Ploughgnomes' Hill. The 
lane continued northwards, past a stile on the west side. A rabbit 
scampered across the road, pushed through the hedge beside the stile 
and hopped away quickly towards Darkwood. 
Flopsy arrived from below. 

> FOLLOW RABBIT
Ingrid tried to climb over the stile but found, gnot surprisingly, 
that it was too high. She shrugged, walked underneath and was in a 
scrubby field on the eastern edge of a great forest. She could see 
a signpost. The rabbit's tail was just visible, vanishing west into 
the trees. 
Flopsy entered from the east and barked excitedly. 

Ingrid went west and was below the eaves of darkwood, in the middle 
of a bramble hedge. Ingrid could see a multitude of thorns. 
Flopsy entered from the east, sniffed at a bramble, yelped and 
retreated out of sight. 

Ingrid tried to go west but found she was trapped by the thorns and 
could not follow the rabbit any further. 

> UNDO  ["Take back move" - available on most micros.]
Ingrid was in a scrubby field on the eastern edge of a great forest. 
She could see a signpost and Flopsy.

> INVENTORY  [or "examine me"]
Ingrid owned a book and a petition. 
Flopsy chased a butterfly into the distance. 

> EXITS 
Exits lead east, south and west. 

> EXAMINE SIGNPOST
It said "General Store, prop Seamus Sosmall" and pointed south along 
a winding path. Ingrid thanked the signpost kindly. 

> BRIEF, WORDS, EXITS ON
OK. OK. OK.  [Locations will be described briefly, pictures turned 
off and exits reported automatically in future. To reverse these 
choices, you could use VERBOSE, PICTURES and EXITS OFF.]

> S  [i.e "SOUTH"]
Ingrid went south and was just outside Seamus' shop. Exits lead 
gnorth and inside through a door. Ingrid could see a bell-pull. 

> GO INSIDE
The door was closed. 
Flopsy arrived from the north. 

> RING BELL
As Ingrid rang the bell, the door opened and slowly closed again. 
Flopsy looked on with interest. 

> FLOPSY, WAIT AND HOLD DOOR
Flopsy gnodded happily. 

> RING BELL
As Ingrid rang the bell, the door opened. Flopsy held the door so 
that it could not close. 

> IN
Ingrid walked inside and was in Seamus Sosmall's shop, surrounded 
by all kinds of peculiar objects. An exit led outside. Ingrid could 
see a flying pig, a three dollar bill, a postcard of cute little 
ice-skating demons, a tax refund, the philosopher's stone and an axe. 
Ingrid looked very suspiciously at the axe, and it looked very 
suspiciously back. 

> SCORE
Ingrid scored 10 out of 1000. 

> EXITS OFF  [stop reporting exits]
OK. One of the little demons winked at Ingrid. 

> RAM SAVE 
OK.  [Before doing anything with these strange objects, save the 
position in RAM - i.e in the computer's memory - in case Ingrid 
encounters difficulties and you want to return to this point, using 
RAM RESTORE. To save to disc or tape, use SAVE and RESTORE.] 

> GET ALL BUT THE PIG 
Three dollar bill: Ingrid took it. 
Postcard of cute little ice-skating demons: it was pinned firmly to 
the wall. 
Tax refund: Ingrid took it. 
Philosopher's stone: as Ingrid touched the Philosopher's Stone, she 
felt herself becoming slower and heavier. Her last thoughts were of 
Mistress Gneehigh at the Institute, "She would have been so proud; 
She was always wanted us girls to be good as gold." 

RAM RESTORE
OK. Ingrid was in Seamus Sosmall's shop, surrounded by all kinds of 
peculiar objects. Ingrid could see a flying pig, a three dollar bill, 
a postcard of cute little ice-skating demons, a tax refund, the 
philosopher's stone and an axe. 

TAKE AXE
Ingrid took the axe. 

GO TO THORNS  [letting the computer work out the route. Press any key 
to abandon this type of "high level" command.]

Ingrid went outside and was in a scrubby field on the eastern edge 
of a great forest. She could see a signpost. Flopsy jumped up to 
greet her. 

Ingrid went west and was below the eaves of darkwood, in the middle 
of a bramble hedge.  Ingrid could see a multitude of thorns. 
Flopsy entered from the east and ate a blackberry. 

> LIE ON THE GROUND
Ingrid lay down and considered the problem. 

> CUT THORNS
Ingrid gave the thorns a thorough pruning with the axe. After all, 
she had studied gardening for two years at the Institute. 
Flopsy looked at the splintered greenery and barked approvingly. 

> WEST
Ingrid stepped over the remains of the thorns and was in a woodland 
clearing. She could see a dog cart. In fact, the cart looked just 
like the one from Gnettlefield farm.
Flopsy entered from the east. 
 
> GET IN  [to use vehicles, get in and move as normal]
Ingrid seated herself in the dog cart. Seeing this, Flopsy 
positioned herself between the shafts at the front of the cart, 
ready to pull it. 
From her higher vantage point, Ingrid caught sight of the smoke 
from the chimney of a small cottage, far to the northeast. 
 
> NE
The cart drove northeast and was on a paved driveway. The sound of 
angry voices came from the cottage at the other end. The trolls were 
trying to evict Great Aunt Halfyard!   


Hints 
----- 

1. Draw a map (or a series of maps). Remember that the EXITS ON 
   command lists all the paths from each location. 

2. To make life easy for you, the objects that matter in a location 
   are normally listed in a sentence like, "You can see a shopkeeper 
   and a bunch of herbs". (Some other authors hide useful objects 
   amidst the background scenery, but Level 9 avoid this). The 
   rest of your surroundings are probably scenery, but by all means 
   try to do things to them if you like. 

3. Examine all the objects that you see and, as a rule, take 
   everything that you can. Most objects are useful in some way. 

4. Use the "high level" commands, such as GO TO WINDMILL, RUN TO 
   BRIDGE, FOLLOW STEAMROLLER, WAIT 5, WAIT FOR FLOPSY, which take 
   the place of many individual instructions. Remember that pressing 
   a key "breaks" out of such commands. 

5. Some puzzles can only be solved with cooperation from other 
   people (especially in later parts of the game), so get used to 
   giving orders. You can cancel orders given in error by e.g, 
   FLOPSY, STOP

6. Get used to using "UNDO". If you make a mistake and get "killed" 
   or lose a vital object, the UNDO command is available on most 
   micros and takes you back in time - to before your previous move. 
   On larger micros, you can use UNDO many times in succession to 
   retrace your steps a long way through the game. 

7. SAVE your place occasionally, so that if you notice a mistake too 
   late to be able to UNDO it, or if the electricity flickers and your 
   computer crashes, you can RESTORE the saved position and continue 
   from there. SAVE puts your position on tape or disc (see the 
   details instructions) and RESTORE can retrieve it later. RAM SAVE 
   is quicker but less secure, as it saves the position in memory. 

8. Try everything you can think of - even weird or dangerous actions 
   sometimes provide clues, and might be fun. You can use UNDO (or 
   RESTORE if you have previously used SAVE) to recover if the 
   results are "fatal".  

9. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, if there 
   were an axe and a ball on the ground, you could take the axe by 
   typing any of the following:
   > GET THE AXE 
   > TAKE AXE 
   > GET ALL BUT THE BALL 
   > LOOK AT THE AXE AND TAKE IT
   If the game doesn't understand your command, try rephrasing it 
   and using synonyms. If the game still doesn't understand, you 
   are probably trying something that is not important in the game. 

10.If you are really stuck, you can get a free hint sheet, with 
   hundreds of clues, from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, 
   Avon BS24 9UR, England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the 
   packaging and provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope 
   (UK users), or four International reply coupons (overseas users). 



[Official Secrets advert goes here] 
-----------------------------------



Loading instructions for Gnome II
---------------------------------

This section tells you how to run "Gnome II" on your computer, and 
lists the specific features of each version. Should you experience 
any loading problems, return the cassettes or disc, without the 
packaging, to Level 9 Computing at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, 
Avon BS24 9UR. 


Disc loading instructions
-------------------------  

Look down the alphabetical list of computer types and follow the 
instructions for your computer. The underlined text is what you type, 
and remember to press the ENTER or RETURN key after each command. 

Amiga 500          Insert the game disc and turn on your Amiga. 
Amiga 1000/2000    Insert your Kickstart disc and turn on your Amiga. 
                   When it asks for Workbench, insert the game disc. 
Amstrad CPC 6128   Turn on your CPC (6128 or 464/664 expanded to 
                   128K) and insert the game disc. Enter RUN"MENU"
Amstrad PCW        Insert your usual CP/M+ disc and turn on your PCW. 
                   Insert the game disc and enter MENU
Apple II           Insert the game disc and turn on your Apple II. 
Atari ST           Insert the game disc and turn on your ST. 
Atari XE or 800XL  Remove any cartridges. Insert the game disc. While 
                   holding down OPTION for at least 5 seconds, turn 
                   the Atari on. If nothing happens, turn off the 
                   Atari for 30 seconds and try again. 
BBC master or 48K+ Turn on your BBC micro, insert the game disc and 
                   press SHIFT and BREAK together. If this doesn't 
                   work, press CONTROL SHIFT D and BREAK together. 
CBM 64 or 128 disc Turn on your Commodore (while holding down the 
                   Commodore key, if you have a 128). Insert the game 
                   disc and enter LOAD"*",8,1
IBM PC and clones  Insert the normal operating system disc and turn 
                   on your IBM PC. Replace it with the game disc, and 
                   enter MENU
Mac,Mac+           Insert the normal operating system disc and turn on 
                   your Mac. Insert the game disc and double click on 
                   the MENU icon.
Spectrum +3        Turn on the Spectrum, insert the game disc and 
                   press ENTER. 


Tape loading instructions
-------------------------  
Put one of the game tapes in your recorder, look down the alphabetical 
list of computer types and follow the instructions for your computer. 
The underlined text is what you type, and remember to press the ENTER 
or RETURN key after each command. 

If the tape doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again.

Amstrad CPC tape   Turn on your CPC. If it has a disc drive, enter 
                   |TAPE 
                   Type RUN"" start the tape on play and press SPACE. 
Atari XE,800XL     Remove any cartridges. While holding down START and 
                   OPTION for at least 5 seconds, turn on the Atari. 
                   Start the tape on play and press RETURN.  If nothing 
                   happens, turn off the Atari for 30 seconds and try 
                   again. 
CBM 64 or 128 disc Turn on your Commodore (while holding down the 
                   Commodore key if you have a 128). Press SHIFT and 
                   RUN/STOP together and start the tape. 
MSX 64K            Turn on your MSX, enter RUN"CAS:" and play the tape. 
Spectrum 48K       Turn on the Spectrum, type LOAD"" and play the tape.
Spectrum 128/+2    Turn on the Spectrum, press ENTER and play the tape. 


Save on disc
------------ 
To save game positions from the disc version of Gnome II, you 
first need a blank disc of your own. 

Before playing Gnome II, format (initialize) this disc, using 
the ordinary software bought with your micro. (Exceptions to this 
are Apple II and Atari XE,800XL discs - Gnome II uses its own disc 
format on these computers and will initialize the disc itself.) 

When playing the game, enter SAVE and follow the instructions 
displayed. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, and follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. When entering a file 
name, you can either type a short word such as POS1, or use the full 
format permitted by your particular computer. 


Save on tape
------------ 
To save game positions from a cassette version of Gnome II, you 
need a blank cassette of your own. 

When playing the game, start a blank tape on RECORD and enter SAVE 
(if the cassette doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again). When the 
game starts running again, e.g to prompt for your next command by 
displaying ">" or "What now?", stop the tape. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, then follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. Finally, rewind the 
tape on which the position was saved, and play it (if the cassette 
doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again).


Save in memory
-------------- 
To save your game position in memory (all but 48K Spectrums, 64K 
Amstrad CPCs and small BBCs allow this), enter RAM SAVE

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RAM RESTORE 

Remember that saving in memory is very quick and convenient - it is 
an ideal way of saving your position before trying something risky - 
but a RAM SAVEd position will be lost if your computer is turned off 
or crashes, so SAVE to disc or tape occasionally. 

Note also that the UNDO command is available on all versions which 
have RAM SAVE. UNDO takes you "back in time" to before Ingrid last 
moved: it's a bit like RAM RESTORE where the corresponding RAM SAVEs 
are automatic, and that UNDO can be used many times in succession on 
larger micros. 


                      Additional features
                      ------------------- 
The versions of Level 9 adventures on large micros often have more 
facilities than those on smaller machines. Here is a summary of the 
features available with Gnome II...

AMIGA FEATURES 
-------------- 
* colour pictures (use the mouse, with its left button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  BACK SPACE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* README file. For more information, boot the Amiga with Workbench, 
  then insert the game disc and double click on its icon and README.TXT 

AMSTRAD CPC DISC FEATURES
------------------------- 
* colour pictures (use F8 and F2 to slide the picture up and down). 
  To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is 
  waiting for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* the Amstrad CPC disc also works on Amstrad PCW and Spectrum +3; 
* README file. For more information, turn on the CPC, insert the game 
  disc and enter LOAD"README" and LIST
  
AMSTRAD PCW DISC FEATURES
-------------------------
* black-and-white pictures. To see more pictures, wait until the game 
  has loaded and is waiting for you to type something - then flip the 
  disc over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* the Amstrad PCW disc also works on Amstrad CPC and Spectrum +3; 
* README file. For more information, boot the PCW with CP/M+ as usual, 
  then insert the game disc and enter TYPE README.TXT

ATARI ST FEATURES
-----------------
* pictures on colour and black-and-white displays (use the mouse, 
  with its left button pressed, to slide the picture up and down);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  Backspace; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession); 
* variable text size, (experiment by pressing F1 or F2, then typing 
  a few characters). This will help television users; 
* Demonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration of 
  Gnome II, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game and WAIT UNTIL 
  THE FIRST PICTURE HAS FINISHED LOADING and the game is waiting for 
  a command. If necessary, press SPACE a couple of times so the game 
  can print the rest of its start-up message and reach the first 
  prompt, ">" or "What now?". Only then should you press Alternate R
* README file. For more information, start the ST with a disc which 
  does not auto-boot (e.g a blank disc). Then insert the game disc 
  and double click on its icon and README.TXT. 

BBC DISC FEATURES
-----------------
* colour pictures on BBC Masters, B+ with additional sideways RAM, 
  or BBC B with both shadow and sideways RAM. (Smaller BBC show a 
  mode 7 text-only display, e.g BBC B with just sideways or shadow 
  RAM). On BBC Masters you can use the cursor keys, with SHIFT 
  pressed, to slide the picture up and down. 
  To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is waiting 
  for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* recall and editing of previous commands, on BBCs big enough to 
  show pictures, by cursor keys, DELETE and COPY ("forward delete"); 
* variable text size, on BBCs big enough to show pictures; press F0 
  and F1 to select between 40 and 80 column text; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO on big BBCs; 
* picture cache on very big BBCs (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* README file. For more information, turn on the BBC, insert the 
  game disc and enter *TYPE "README"

COMMODORE 64/128 DISC FEATURES
------------------------------ 
* colour pictures (use the cursor keys to slide the picture up and 
  down). To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is 
  waiting for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* fast performance when the pictures are turned off; partly because 
  loading from disc takes a little while (even though we use a good 
  turbo) and partly because not needing to maintain a moveable split 
  screen (between the picture and text) frees more processing power. 

IBM PC FEATURES
---------------
* pictures in MGA and EGA modes. (The disc just contains one set of 
  pictures and converts them on output when MGA is chosen);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  Backspace; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (on machines with more than 128K); 
* demonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration 
  of Gnome II, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game by entering 
  MENU and waiting for it to load. Then, before doing anything else, 
  press ALT R. Continue by choosing a display format as usual;  
* README file. For more information, boot the PC from its normal 
  operating system disc, then insert the game disc and enter 
  TYPE README.TXT 

MAC FEATURES 
------------
* black-and-white pictures (use the mouse, with its button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession). 

SPECTRUM +3 DISC FEATURES
-------------------------
* black and white pictures, tailored for tv display (use the cursor 
  keys to slide the picture up and down). To see more pictures, 
  wait until the game has loaded and is waiting for you to type 
  something - then flip the disc over;
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys with SYMB 
  SHIFT pressed, and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession); 
* the Spectrum +3 disc also works on Amstrad CPC and PCWs; 
* README file. For more information, turn on the Spectrum +3, insert 
  the game disc, select +3 BASIC and enter LOAD "READ.ME"


Copyright
---------
Please remember that Gnome II is protected by copyright and took 
a lot of research, time and trouble to produce, so don't make than 
one copy, for your own use, to keep only as long as you have the 
original game. 

