       GNOME RANGER II DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9
       --------------------------------------------------

                         DESIGN OUTLINE

The game was a three-part graphical adventure, written in the third 
person and past tense (like this design). It was a sequel to 
"Gnome Ranger", Level 9's PCW 87 game, and could be played as three 
seperate games, but the idea was to play them in sequence, to 
reinact the continuing exploits of Ingrid Bottomlow after her 
return home to Gnettlefield Farm. 

In Ingrid's absence, the old lord of the manor had been succeeded by 
Jasper Quickbuck and his agent, Silas Crawley. They had decided that 
Little Moaning was the ideal site for an exciting new enterprise 
zone and Gnorsegnome theme park, so the locals were to be evicted... 
unless Ingrid could put a stop to the plan. 

                            PROGRAMS 

The game comprised Ingrid's journal and three adventure programs, 
corresponding to events at Little Moaning (the village), Gnettlefield 
Farm, and Moaning Manor. Transfer between them was automatic with 
disc versions; with cassette versions the player was told when to 
load a tape. Each part had to be loaded once. 

The Second Gnettlefield Journal started with Ingrid's return home 
to Gnettlefield farm (where she found that little had changed and 
the family had stored turnips in her room again), and recounted the 
events of the next few weeks, ending with the annual Mid-Winter 
party at which the gnomes were threatened with eviction. 


LITTLE MOANING (PART 1) 

The game started with a report of the meeting in the village hall. 
The gnomes had been invited to a "party" hosted by the new Squire, 
but the hall was empty apart from Silas Crawley, Quickbuck's agent, 
who revealed that their invitations doubled as eviction notices, 
before leaving and (as it happens) taking the ferryboat to the east 
bank. 

The other gnomes assumed that "something would turn up" and went 
off to continue life as before in the village, and the game proper 
began with Ingrid and Flopsy the dog (the main character in part 1)
in the hall, determined to get everyone to sign a protest petition 
and take it to the local councillor, Great Aunt Halfyard at Doomladen 
- no easy task when a typical gnomish reaction to an Ingrid visit was 
for householders to double-lock all their doors and hide in the 
cellar (for similar reasons, only Flopsy and the rook would obey 
commands in part 1). Ingrid was too thick-skinned to notice anything 
amiss, but her reputation for accidental destruction was well known.  

At first, reading Ingrid's petition revealed the names of any people 
who had signed. But once it was nearly complete, examination reported 
those who had not signed instead, to help the player. If Ingrid tried 
to get someone to sign twice they reacted appropriately (e.g replying 
to a knock on their door with "Go away, Ingrid, I've already put my 
cross on your stupid bit of paper", rather than with the same action 
as before). Asking one of Quickbuck's men to sign resulted in a false 
entry, such as "Micky Mouse", which was always there on examination 
and reduced her score: allow for several such entries, all different. 

* The Bridge was broken some time ago, and now the Ferryboat had 
been left on the far bank by Silas Crawley the River Dribble was 
effectively impassible. But Ingrid borrowed Gnat Tackhammer's 
dogless carriage and took it to the top of Ploughgnome Lane and then 
rushed at speed down to and over the broken bridge. 

The carriage, and the boat, could carry any number of people and 
were moved in the same way as the various vehicles in "Lancelot", 
simply following the moves of anyone on board. If any occupant tried 
to move indoors (or onto land in the case of the boat), their vehicle 
was left behind. Climbing up Ploughgnome Lane was described as being 
hard work; travelling downhill resulted in descriptions of ever 
greater speed; if the carriage was "going quickly" but turned off 
(or did not move for a turn) the "brakes were jammed on"; and if the 
carriage reached the bridge, depending on its "speed", it stopped on 
the brink, landed in the water (and was dragged back), or jumped the 
river (if the river was jumped, the carriage was wrecked and everyone 
but Ingrid and Flopsy fell out half-way, with appropriate cries 
of horror, and struggled back to the west bank). Gnat Tackhammer 
insisted on accompanying his carriage, got increasingly worried if it 
went faster, and ended up head-down in the river mud with the rest. 

The ferry boat started on the east bank of the river, and Ingrid 
used it to return. 

* Dribblemouth Light was inaccessible by land, as its doorway was 
high above ground level and Millie Watts was a bit too deaf to hear 
her shouts and throw down the ladder. Ingrid visited the Rookery 
and enlisted the help of one of the rooks, who was much more 
intelligent than the gnomes and delighted to help her block the 
planned redevelopment. The rook obeyed Ingrid and carried her to the 
flat platform atop the Lighthouse, from where she climbed down, got 
Millie's signature, lowered the rope ladder and left. The ladder 
was promptly raised again afterwards. 

* Dunrollin in the Dunes. The back door was very spongy and knocking 
had no effect. But, when Isfrunt was at home and Ingrid knocked on 
the front door, she thought she saw someone at an upstairs window. 
Continued knocking resulted in footsteps down the stairs, the back 
door opening and Isfrunt escaping across the fields to Tack's Farm 
(where he would hide until Ingrid got safely away - e.g to the centre 
of Little Moaning - before returning). But Ingrid got Flopsy to wait 
beside the back door, grab Isfrunt when he emerged and carry him to 
her (or Ingrid could have left Flopsy knocking, I guess). After    
signing, Isfrunt rushed inside and slammed the door.  

* Ferry Cottage. Mistress Spratt answered the door when Ingrid 
knocked, and was happy to sign the petition. But Boney Spratt was 
too busy fishing outside; his job was made a lot more difficult by 
the loss of his boat (now on the other side of the Dribble). He 
signed only when Ingrid returned the boat. 

* Forge. Gnat Tackhammer was happy to sign the petition, and was 
"happy" to let Ingrid borrow his dogless carriage (though he insisted 
on staying on board). 

* Gnettlefield Farm. On each return, Ingrid found a different type 
of root vegetable stored in her bedroom. Everyone was prepared to 
sign her petition, though Bumpy was nowhere to be seen, until 
Ingrid thought to search the rabbit warren for him. 

* Green Gnome. Everyone was happy to sign the petition, though 
Ingrid had to be careful to only give the form to locals, as quite 
a lot of travellers were in residence. 

* Halfyard's New Mill. Ingrid ignored the "No Ingrids" sign, while 
Flopsy scared away the chickens. She then pulled the bell rope and, 
had she remained in view, nothing would have happened. But Ingrid 
decided to surprise Dusty Halfyard, so she left his shopping on 
the doorstep and hid in some nearby bushes. When Dusty eventually 
emerged to take in his order from the shop, after shifting all the 
flour sacks which had blocked the inside of the door and kept it 
closed, Ingrid jumped out. Dusty leapt in surprise, dropped his 
groceries onto the hard cobbles where they broke, knocked against 
the pile of sacks and vanished beneath a cloud of flour. When the 
air cleared, she found that Dusty was buried again, though it was 
clear from his tone of voice that he was not hurt. Ingrid made a 
mental note to summon help and, as one of Dusty's hands was sticking 
from the pile of sacks, she got him to sign the petition.

* Tack's Farm. Nobody would answer Ingrid's knocking, but she 
fetched a ladder from the barn, climbed up it and through an open 
window, where she found Mrs Tackhammer sitting on the bed. Mrs 
Tackhammer was happy to sign the petition, as was Seamus Sosmall 
when Ingrid opened a wardrobe and found him - he explained he was 
trapped there when his teleport spell went wrong. 

* Moaning Manor. A notice, "Maid Wanted" was attached to the gate, 
but the manor itself was just an echo location. 

* Rookery (Greater Cawing). There was nobody to sign the petition, 
but a rook flew down to help Ingrid (see Dribblemouth Light).

* Shop. Ingrid simply asked for Miss Farthing's signature, and also 
offered to deliver the order already made up for Halfyard's Mill. 

* Three Mole Hill. The hermit was well known to like solitude. When 
Ingrid first arrived at the small cave here, she thought she saw 
movement, but never got a real look. To get the hermit's signature, 
Ingrid left her petition in the cave and he signed it when nobody 
was there to see.  

* Doomladen and Darkwood. Ignoring the new sign, "beware of the mad 
gorilla", Ingrid was set upon by Rollo Butterpat in a monkey suit, 
but dodged him by running through a briar patch, where the fur on 
his costume got caught. 

Great Aunt Aggie Halfyard was happy to see Ingrid, signed the 
petition and gave encouragement. If the petition was now complete, 
she offered to present it to the council and Ingrid's role in the 
first part of the adventure was over. 

At the end of part 1, Ingrid's talent for disaster struck again. 
News of the petition leaked out and Silas Crawley reacted by bringing 
forward the date of the eviction to before the council meeting. The 
gnomes were furious to learn that, because of Ingrid's meddling, they 
had to be gone by tomorrow...  



GNETTLEFIELD FARM (PART 2)

The eviction started at first light, with a team of northern trolls 
marching on the village. Silas Crawley planned to tackle one house at 
a time, starting with Gnettlefield as this was the only non-rented 
house and he had to get its deeds. Fortunately, Ingrid was more than 
up to the task and, though the farm was wrecked in the process, the 
village was saved. 

This part started with a near-parody from Hitchhiker's Guide (the 
steam roller taking the part of the bulldozer). Ingrid woke on the 
landing outside her bedroom door (one look through the crack under 
the door revealed her room was completely full of root vegetables). 
Anyone opening the door got buried by turnips, though they were dug 
out if any friends came past; or in Ingrid's case, a racetrack of 
messages describing how people walked past, seeming not to hear her 
muffled cries, until Flopsy arrived. 

(The turnips, by the way, were repacked in Ingrid's room if anyone 
got a chance while she wasn't looking.)

* Next, Seamus Sosmall teleported in for just long enough to warn 
Ingrid that the assault on Gnettlefield was about to begin. Ingrid 
asked Flopsy to get the Plans from Silas and bring them to her, so 
she would be forewarned. (Nobody else was quick enough to steal his 
Plans, as Silas would have snatched them back instantly, as he did 
if he got the chance later. Ingrid knew that Flopsy was fast enough 
because she reacted to Silas' presence by one from a set of ten 
attacks, eg nipping at his legs and nimbly dodging his kicks.) 

* For phase 1, a steam roller came lumbering up the narrow track to 
Gnettlefield Farm, squeezing between the walls and forcing back all 
in its way. Had it reached the farmyard, Silas would have driven it 
into the front door - shattering the timbers - before entering to 
grab the deeds, forcing the gnomes to surrender. 

The roller was stopped if anyone lay in the road, but it was not 
delayed as the accompanying trolls simply picked everyone up and 
pushed them down the track. The exception was Noah Bottomlow, who 
had put on yet more bulk during Ingrid's holiday and now resembled 
Jumbo Butterpat at his heaviest. He could not be moved from the 
narrow track, Silas was forced to signal the retreat and redirect 
the engine around via Soggybottom field. 

If Soggybottom field was already flooded, the roller simply detoured 
around it and reached the farmyard. But Ingrid arranged for the dam 
to be broken as the roller reached the field, flooding the area and 
sinking the roller in the resultant bog. 

While the trolls headed off to find what had happened (and repaired 
the dam well enough to prevent it being broken again), Ingrid 
climbed onto the engine and plugged its chimney with Mother's loaf 
(which was exactly the right size). The resultant blockage caused 
flames to lick from the firebox, igniting the cab of the roller and 
putting it out of commission. 

Silas was furious when he and the trolls returned to the destroyed 
roller, and he ordered his followers to capture the gnomes and put 
a stop to all resistance. All but one troll (Ambul) chased the 
gnomes back to the farmyard and locked them up. On Ingrid's 
subsequent return, she found the gnomes were all locked in the barn 
and the trolls had split up to patrol the area. 

(Thereafter in part 2, if Ingrid moved into a location with Silas 
or a patrolling troll, she got the room description and a chance 
to jump back with no time passing. Any "first time text" was only 
printed after she had agreed to the move). 

* Troll 1 (Ambul) chased Ingrid to the warren (a white rabbit led 
her there). She could gain fractionally on Ambul because of her 
better knowledge of the warren passages, and used the extra turn 
to brief Flopsy to wait beside the root which provided access to 
the lower levels. Ambul then arrived and followed Ingrid down; she 
promptly climbed back up and Flopsy immediately bit off the root as 
previously ordered. 

Ingrid was prevented by special case code from fleeing in any other 
direction by special code (the idea was to force her away from the 
farm so that people could be repositioned without us needing to 
worry about Ingrid seeing any sudden change). 

Once free of her pursuer, Ingrid sought out and captured the 
remaining patrolling trolls. The next two, 2 and 3, had  distinct 
personalities, while the others were effectively interchangeable. 

* Troll 2 (Babble) fancied Ingrid and had made comments such as 
"Wooargh!" and "Lookit the meat on that one!" when the trolls were 
acting as a group aboard the steam roller. He was on guard outside 
Gnettlefield farmhouse, preventing anyone entering, and did not try 
to capture her, but instead tried to chat Ingrid up. Ingrid was 
surprised; she had always known she was beautiful, but it was the 
kind of beauty which normally took a long time to have any impact..

If Ingrid arrived wearing perfume and lipstick, Babble was quite 
overcome by love and automatically arranged a tryst in Tack's Farm, 
headed off in that direction and thus left the game. 

* Troll 3 (Chugg) was sitting in the Kitchen of Gnettlefield Farm, 
waving an empty bottle and singing about beer. Ingrid got Dusty 
Halfyard's secret cask of Green Gnome scrumpy and offered it to the 
troll.. Clunk! One green and insensible troll. 

* Troll 4 (Doldrum) was trapped at Halfyard's new windmill by being 
hoisted into the air. Inside the mill were a brake and a lever. 
Pulling the brake started the vanes turning, and pushing it stopped 
them (starting/stopping and continuing were audible inside and 
visible outside the mill). If the vanes were turning, pulling the 
lever started the hoist up and pushing started it down. (This was 
visible on the ground outside because a hook would rise away, or 
descend into view as appropriate. Inside, any movement was audible 
and the hook and contents were visible as they passed the "window". 
Anyone on the hook had to watch as they rose to the window and next 
to the top of the mill - or reversed the process going down - they 
could only free the hook when on the ground). Ingrid did not have 
time to attach the hook to the patrolling troll and then run upstairs 
to the mill room, before he freed himself, so this was a two-person 
puzzle (and Flopsy, e.g, was quite capable of operating the controls). 
The mill, by the way, contained the cask of Green Gnome scrumpy. 

* Troll 5 (Ergot) was guarding the Barn which held Ingrid's family. 
He prevented any access via the locked front door, but a rough area 
of wall (visible from inside and outside) proved to be a jerry-built 
section of wall, rebuilt from loose bricks after the barn was 
damaged in the past. Persistant attempts at removing the bricks 
resulted in a sequence of messages - finally ending in the troll 
being alerted and entering the barn, Ingrid escaping to the outside 
if appropriate, and the barn collapsing and trapping its complaining 
occupants. Nobody was hurt, but they were not happy!   

* Troll 6 (Fuddle) was captured using the telelilies. Ingrid dropped 
one lily down the dry well (and visited there to rescue Grandma's 
handbag, obviouly lost earlier, and hence get her perfume and 
lipstick). Even people could be transported by the Lilies if they 
got in one, or if one was put over their heads, so Ingrid could use 
this technique to teleport a troll. However, the troll promptly 
returned via the destination lily, so Ingrid had to promptly drop 
the second lily in the well to trap him there. 

* Troll 7 (Gormley) was captured in the cellar of Halfyard's old 
mill (now a pile of rubble). Once Ingrid had opened the trapdoor in 
the ground, any troll who arrived would briefly teeter on the edge. 
A push, next turn, and he would fall in. Next turn, the troll would 
climb out, unless the trapdoor was closed, and on future turns the 
troll would open the trapdoor unless something was put on top to 
hold it down. Access to the inside of the "mill" was already blocked 
by rubble.

* Any troll who followed Ingrid could be trapped in the guinea pig 
sty. This comprised an outer sty, providing access to three inner 
pens, seperated by hurdles which everyone but the pigs could cross. 
Trolls were understandably scared of the pigs and backed away 
immediately from them, so what Ingrid did was to go through the pens 
in order, followed by her pursuer, until she reached the third pen 
with the pigs. Moving/opening the gate to release them into the main 
"yard" of the sty, Ingrid quickly left, climbing over the gate. The 
troll was then trapped in the pens, unable to follow because of the 
pigs. 

If Ingrid had been followed to the sty by more than one troll, the 
other(s) would have waited outside the sty (the first shouting "You 
go ahead, I'll wait here to block her escape). If she had simply 
released the pigs while her pursuer was in the main part of the sty, 
he would have escaped to the outside and waited there. The guinea 
pigs would not go out of their sty. 

* Additionally, any troll following Ingrid could be chased off by 
the bantams. The first person (apart from Ingrid and animals) to 
enter their coop was chased away by the clucking horde - neither 
person nor bantams returned. 

* On trapping the last troll, Ingrid was reminded that she had now 
to enter Gnettlefield and confront Silas, getting the deeds and 
using them against him. 

* On going upstairs in the house, Ingrid found Silas searching for 
the deeds to Gnettlefield. He grabbed her (though Ingrid had a 
chance to jump back) and took her to Grandma Gnutson's bedroom where 
he forced her to retrieve the deeds (all this was just a message). 
Then Silas let Ingrid keep the deeds while he marched her out of 
the house, one location at a time. 

Ingrid had to keep the deeds from Silas, so she waited until she was 
on the stairs, then shoved them through the crack under her door. 
Silas opened the door and was buried in turnips! Provided Ingrid had 
dealt with all Silas' followers, there was nobody to answer his cries 
and dig Silas out - he had to admit defeat and sign an agreement to 
leave the gnomes in peace. 



MOANING MANOR (PART 3)

Events returned to normal in Little Moaning thanks to Ingrid's 
bravery, though she wished someone had said thank you - why, if 
she hadn't had such a nice, trusting nature, she might even have 
thought they blamed everything on her. 

Not much happened for a few weeks, except that Jasper Quickbuck 
moved to the manor. Then Ingrid's family had a secret meeting, 
accidentally forgetting to invite Ingrid, and announced that, with 
Seamus Sosmall's Leprechaun magic, they had learned of a way to 
solve their problems for good.  

A brave volunteer had to infiltrate the manor and find out what was 
going on there. By coincidence there was a vacancy for a maid, so 
Ingrid applied, in disguise, and set out to learn what she could. 

* Front Door. Ingrid started at the Manor Gate. She walked to the 
Porch, where she knocked and was told to go round to the Servants' 
Entrance by the Butler. (This was just a message; a special case 
to speed things up if Ingrid knocked near the start. Later on, 
knocking involved the Butler in a racetrack with him walking to the 
door in a similar way, but taking several turns of course). There 
was a latch inside the front door which could be slid to allow it 
to be opened from the outside, but relevant "Goto routes" still 
avoided the front door and went via the Servants' entrance. 

Anyway, Ingrid went round to the Kitchen, where the Housekeeper 
greeted her with, "So you're the new maid. You're early. Your duties 
don't start until tomorrow, so keep out of my way until then", before 
stalking off on a long racetrack around the building. 

Ingrid explored the labyrinthine building, and soon found that 
Jasper Quickbuck had any number of skeletons in his closets. She 
needed 9 pieces of evidence for a maximum score, before waving from 
the Porch to start the endgame. Details were as follows... 

* Jasper's Office. The Butler normally roamed about in the hall 
outside the Office, reacting angrily if Ingrid opened the door and 
pushing her towards the kitchen (on any third attempt, Ingrid was 
fired). The same thing happened if Ingrid was caught when coming out 
of the Office, and any evidence carried was removed from the game. 

The Butler went to answer the front door when anyone knocked, so 
Ingrid got Daisy to do this twice, with an appropriate delay, and 
got past him into the Office. 

Examining the Blotting Paper revealed the incriminating impression 
of a letter. If the Desk Drawer was opened, it turned out to be 
empty, but removing it, and then examining the Desk, revealed a set 
of Cheque Stubs that had slipped behind the Drawer.
 
* Long Gallery. If Jasper encountered any evidence, he immediately 
took it to the Safe and locked it there, before returning to his 
previous activity. He ordered anyone else visible away, before 
opening the safe. 

Ingrid found the safe behind a Picture on the wall; a painting of 
the first lord. She hid behind some curtains while Jasper approached 
and opened the safe, learning the combination. She could then open 
it at will; inside were two sets of account Books. 

* Yard. Searching the Dustbins revealed some disgusting Rubbish and, 
on searching this, a crumpled Letter about Gnommess share dealing 
was found. If Ingrid searched the Rubbish, she realise she was in 
danger of getting contaminated (if she answered yes to the yes/no 
question, she smelt bed and lost a few points), so she got Daisy to 
search instead. 

* Jasper's Bedroom. The door was permanently "locked" and could 
only be used from the inside. But, if she entered the chimney or 
any fireplace, Ingrid found a connecting network of flues which 
provided access there. 

Occasionally the phone would ring and, on picking it up, Ingrid 
could listen to the conversation at the other end. She could also 
record it, assuming the tape was in the answering machine, by 
pressing the Record Button (any previous conversation being wiped), 
and play it back by pressing the Playback Button. 

There were a few conversations, for variety, and any of them were 
incriminating - the recorded Tape providing good evidence. 

Also, inside the Wallet, in the Pocket, in the Jacket, in the 
Wardrobe, was a Sheaf of Photographs of the local council planning 
committee, enjoying themselves with bikini-clad damsels aboard 
Jasper's yacht. "Aha", thought Ingrid, "now I know how he got 
planning permission to clear Little Moaning to make room for a 
Gnorsegnome park."

* Swimming Pool. Jasper kept a tight hold on his Filofax at all 
times but one; while swimming. He stopped anyone walking past the 
pool, to the changing room where it was left. But Ingrid could 
either hide behind a sun-lounger while he walked from the changing 
room, past her, to the pool - then nip in and take it - or distract 
him by offering another piece of evidence which he would immediately 
take to hide in the safe (forgetting the Filofax). 

* Secret Room. Jasper Quickbuck was planning an insurance fiddle 
and had "stolen" a lot of the more valuable furniture from Moaning 
Manor and shut it up in a secret room. The 'phone conversations (see 
above) concerned this, and people such as the Cook mentioned it too. 

Indeed, Ingrid's disguise had been about as successful as one would 
expect, Jasper had recognised her as a troublemaker, and hired her 
so she could be blamed when the police arrived. Seamus briefly 
bobbed up after a few hundred turns to warn Ingrid (this was just 
a message) and, if she took much too long, the police arrived and 
arrested her. 

Fortunately, the position of the secret room was obvious: quite a 
few first-floor windows were unaccounted for, comparing the inside 
count on one wing with the outside view, and this wing ended 
abruptly. 

To get there, Ingrid had to climb out of a window, along a ledge, 
and into the first window of the secret room. Here she found the 
most valuable antique in the house, the "Moaning Star". 


* Tree Court. Climbing the Tree just gave a message about all the 
birds' nests etc that Ingrid found. Examining it gave a description 
of how, amongst other things, the Tree cast a dense shadow across 
one corner of the court (thereafter, the shadow object was visible). 
Examining the tree's Shadow revealed a hole between the ancient 
stones - and redirected "in" so it became a visible exit to the 
spiral stairs beyond this hole, rather than an invisible exit back 
to the Banquetting Hall. Ingrid climbed the stairs and reached the 
gloomy Attic above. 

* Garret. The Attic seemed to have no exits except back down and, as 
Ingrid waited, she heard the sounds of the Ghost of Moaning Manor 
approaching. If she stayed there, the Artist threw open a hitherto 
unseen door - the sounds had been his footsteps etc - and invited her 
into his Garret, "to see my etchings, little girl" (?). 

The artist spent his time churning out "ancient master" paintings 
for Jasper (by a process which involved a long racetrack using 
brillo pads etc to age each painting). He was delighted to receive 
a visitor and happy to let Ingrid take a picture. 

* Library. Ingrid read the books: there were ten messages for this, 
a new one being produced by each attempt. The first few revealed 
hints, later ones just reported Ingrid as being increasingly bored 
with having to read books in EVERY game, and refusing to do so any 
more. The tenth message (in Ingrid firmly refused to read any more, 
was repeated for the 10th and later attempts).  

* Chimneys. The exits into fireplaces and chimneys were not visible 
from outside (just from inside). If Ingrid dropped anything while in 
a shaft or flue (etc), it rolled away and ended by the corresponding 
fireplace - in particular, the Duct Junction "led" to the Kitchen. 

* The Loft was adjacent to the Garret, but there was no way through. 
If Ingrid examined (or looked through) the Hole, she got one of a 
series of messages about a vague figure shuffling about. 

* Ballroom. Events in the Ballroom could be seen from the Central 
Gallery, which looked out onto it. And, by untying the Chandelier 
and answering "yes" to the question about holding onto it, Ingrid 
could swing down into the Ballroom. She did this at the end, when 
the door onto the Ballroom became locked. The Housekeeper retied the 
Chandelier if it was out of place when she walked past. 

* End. When Ingrid thought she had enough evidence, she stepped out 
onto the front Porch and waved; signalling Seamus Sosmall and her 
Father to arrive. 

They emerged from a bush to inspect the evidence, and went away 
again if there was not enough. If there was enough, they told 
Ingrid to lead the way to Jasper Quickbuck. Ingrid was puzzled when 
Seamus offered a vial of "strength potion", but gulped it down. 
She had never felt more single-minded - nothing would let him get 
away from her!  

Jasper was encountered in the Hall; he saw from the look in Ingrid's 
eyes that the game was up and ran whimpering into the Ballroom, 
locking the door. 

Ingrid knew the Balcony led on to the Ballroom, sprinted up the 
stairs and grabbed the Chandelier moored against the balustrade. 
With a fearsome whoop, she swung down upon her hapless victim, 
flattening him to the ground. 

Jasper tried to collect his wits. "OK, you win", he gulped, "You 
know enough to put me in prison for life. What do you want me to 
do?" 

The potion coursed through Ingrid's veins. "Marry me!" she 
breathed. 

Jasper fainted. 

The game ended with a description of the marriage ceremony. The 
whole population of Little Moaning was delighted; not only was the 
village saved, but they had got rid of their major pest. And Ingrid 
was ecstatically planning how to spend her new riches as she stood, 
clutching her husband. Only Jasper was less than happy, "Where did 
I go wrong?" he moaned - but very, very quietly. 



                      GENERAL DESIGN NOTES
                      --------------------
SCORING 

To add atmosphere, if any follower(s) of Ingrid were present at an 
embarassing event for her, one of them was quite likely to laugh or 
make rude remarks. 

CAPTURE

Although there were no deaths in this game, there were a few events 
which led to Ingrid's permanent capture. The first two times, Seamus 
Sosmall "appeared" and rescued Ingrid (at the cost of -10 to her 
score); the third time, he appeared but was forced to admit defeat. 

ECHO LOCATIONS 

To complement invisible objects and echo verbs, this game continued 
the concept of "echo locations", introduced in Lancelot (they had 
inverted commas in the maps). When Ingrid moved to one of these, its 
corresponding message was printed instead of the location desc, e.g: 
"Ingrid went south down Ploughgnome Lane, but Little Moaning seemed 
deserted - all the gnomes must have hidden themselves. Unable to find 
anyone to help defend Gnettlefield, Ingrid returned north" (the room 
text being, " down Ploughgnome Lane ... defend Gnettlefield,").  

As this example showed, the movement was reversed after the message 
had been printed, so that nobody could actually end up in an "echo 
location".

When an NPC entered an "echo location" they were normally kicked 
out, e.g: "Flopsy went south. She returned from the south. ", or 
else they took the opportunity to leave the game and go to Limbo.    

The intention was to cope with the common situation where only part 
of a place was necessary for the game and where it would have been a 
"waste of space" to map the rest. 

FIRST TIME TEXT 

To help with storytelling, this game continued the concept of 
"first time text", introduced in Lancelot. These were messages, 
one per location, which were printed the first time Ingrid went 
there - allowing for one-off events, or jokey descriptions which 
would have fallen flat had they been repeated by every "look". 

The data structure was a list with one entry per location, holding 
the number of the message to be printed on Ingrid's next visit 
there. It was initialised from a corresponding static list, and 
entries were set to 0 (a null message) after printing. Note that 
messages could be set up during the game and, e.g, the white rabbit 
in part 2 was not an object but was done in this way. 

COMMANDING PEOPLE 

Ingrid couldn't command everybody, but could make use of Flopsy and 
anyone else who offered to help. (These others were: the rook in 
part 1, the rabbit and all the gnomes in part 2, and cousin Daisy in 
part 3). 
