                     Grail Contest: 19/2/89 
                     ---------------------- 

Congratulations on solving the first part of the Grail Quest. 
Here are instructions for the final. Please read them carefully. 

Your ultimate aim is to work out the name of the famous place 
where the Grail is "hidden", and send this answer in by post. 


The contest involves the following stages: 

1) Each of the nineteen questions, A-S, has a one-word answer.  
   (To give some wrong examples, if the questing beast was sixteen 
   dog-power, Lancelot's father helped Arthur in Camelot, and the 
   four queens stand near Arthur's grave, the answers to A, B and 
   Q respectively would be 16, CAMELOT and QUEENS). 

2) Each of the answers is converted to a one-digit number:  
   * If it's a word, replace each of the letters by its position 
     in the alphabet (A=1,B=2,C=3 ... Z=26) and add them up. 
     So CAMELOT becomes 3+1+13+5+12+15+20 = 69. (If the answer is 
     already a number, you don't need this first stage of course). 
   * If the number is bigger than nine, add its digits together. 
     So 69 becomes 6+9 = 15. 
   * If the new number is still bigger than nine, repeat the 
     process until a one-digit number is left. 
     So 16 becomes 1+5 = 6. 
   * (So, taking the examples above: 16, CAMELOT and QUEENS would 
     become 7, 6 and 9). 

3) The answers from above build up into a 6-digit map reference (you 
   will have to guess the letters at the front of the reference), 
   using the following formula: 

                     First digit:  A+B-Q 
                     Second digit: C+D-O 
                     Third digit:  E+F-R 
                     Fourth digit: G-H+L 
                     Fifth digit:  I+J-P 
                     Sixth digit:  K+M-S 
 
   (Again, taking the incorrect example above, the first digit of 
   the map reference would be four: A+B-Q = 7+6-9 = 4). 

4) Use a map to find the name of the famous place at the map 
   reference. Write this down. 


                              WINNING 

* All entries must be by recorded delivery letter, to ???, AND 
  the envelope stamped by a post office date stamp to further 
  prove date of postage. 

* If you work out where the grail is "hidden", write the name of 
  the famous place, followed by the letters A-S and the answers 
  to as many of the corresponding questions as you know. 

  The winner will basically be the first person to find the grail 
  and write in. But each correct answer A-S is worth 1 day so 
  e.g a lucky entry with only 13 correct answers posted on the 10th 
  will still be beaten by one with 19 correct answers on the 15th. 

* Only one wrong entry is allowed per person, and if you do send 
  in a claim for a wrong place all later answers will be ignored. 
  But you are allowed to send in a second correct entry (i.e one 
  that also names the right place), if you should work out more 
  of the answers A-S. 

* Please enter regardless on 31st March 1989. If nobody has worked 
  out the full answer by then, the winner will be the person who 
  has got the most correct answers from the nineteen questions. 



Here are the individual questions. You may need to refer to the 
Penguin English Library version of Le Morte D'Arthur, and to 
Arthurian books in general, but I promise that I have avoided 
obscure sources for the information. I wish you all luck. 




A. How many hound-power was the Questing Beast? 

B. Where did Lancelot's father greatly help Arthur? 

C. How many times did Lancelot rescue Guenever at the stake? 

D. How many brothers, or half-brothers, had Mordred? 

E. Which sword's name indicated it could cut steel? 

F. How many Round Table knights saw the Grail at Pentecost? 

G. Who was also called Cuchullain? 

H. Who of Arthur's Grail Knights lived longest? 

I. What colour was a new knight's shield? 

J. What exactly was Lucy? 

K. What was Lancelot's real name? 

L. Emperors' bird.  

M. Arthurian namesake of computer. 

N. Assuming the celebrants of Mass were supernatural, how many 
   mortals saw the Grail in Castle Carbonek? 

O. Where was Geoffrey the writer from? 

P. Someone's original name was slightly changed to please the 
   French. What was it? 

Q. Who stand near Arthur's grave, between his sons and his quoit? 

R. Kind of tree which may have grown on the Isle of Avalon. 

S. The historical Arthur seems to have been a war leader similar 
   to Alfred the Great. How many centuries apart were they? 
