          
          Notes:
          (MDA and chapter numbers refer to Penguin edition of Le
          Morte D'Arthur. OAFK is The Once and Future King (1967
          Fontana Edition).
          
          A     The very first reference to the beast in MDA (I:19) is
               "thought he heard a noise of hounds to the sum of
               thirty".  But later in the same paragraph it is "thirty
               couple", likewise in IX:12 and X:13.  In the first
               reference Arthur only THOUGHT it sounded like 30 , and
               it was in the distance.  Therefore I assume that the
               correct answer is 60.
          
          B    Most sources seem to agree that Lancelot's father was
               Ban.  Ban came to Arthur's aid in the great battle that
               took place near the Castle of Bedegraine.  At the end
               of I:18 MDA refers to this as "the battle of
               Bedegraine".
          
          C    XVIII:4 - Guenever is to be burnt; XVIII:7 - Lancelot
               defeats Mador to save her.
          
               XIX:9 "speak we of Queen Guenever that was brought to a
               fire to be burnt"; Lancelot fought to prove her
               innocence and thus rescued her from the stake.  (See
               also the Computer Game - Lancelot!)
          
               XX:8 is titled "How Sir Lancelot and his kinsmen
               rescued the queen from fire..." 'nuff said?
          
               Or, OAFK p 502 "Lancelot was, in the end, to fight for
               the Queen at the stake three times".
          
          D    This all depends on who was actually Mordred's Mother
               and Father!  MDA gives his mother as Morgause, but most
               other sources reckon on Morgana, some even going so far
               as to suggest that even if, as in MDA, Morgause appears
               to be the mother, it was still achieved by Morgana's
               witchcraft!  But, MDA says Morgause, so Morgause it is.
               In MDA Morgause has four other sons: Gawain, Agravaine,
               Gaheris and Gareth (I:19).
          
               MDA leaves the relevation of Mordred's father till near
               the end: XX:19 - "Sir Mordred was King Arthur's son"
               and XXI:1 "King Arthur begat you", though the second
               quotation does not appear in the 1901 McMillan edition,
               presumably it is from the Winchester Manuscript
               discovered in 1934.
          
               So, how many other sons did Arthur have?  MDA gives us
               only Borre (I:17) but Nennias and others mention Amr
               (also known as Anir) and there is also a Llacheu.
          
               I assume MDA is to be treated as the "bible" so I'll
               stick at five!  (Who knows how many he didn't admit too
               - if the brief affair with Borre's mother is anything
               to go by: lots!)
          
          E    II:3 - Thank Heavens for the easy ones!
          
          F    XIII:7 "it was so preciously covered" - sneaky!
          
               [Post-competition addendum:  apparently the answer
               required here was 150 - the full complement of the
               Round Table - but the question setters failed to note
               the words "covered with white samite, but there was
               none might see it" and Galahad's speech which started
               the Quest: "but one thing beguiled us, we might not see
               the Holy Grail...wherefore...I shall labour in the
               quest of the Sangrail." - this meant that my third map
               reference digit was wrong, but I decided to submit it
               anyway!]
          
          G    I thought we were sticking to "Lancelot - The Computer
               Game" spellings!  [OAFK p 625 - "Gawaine...they would
               have pronounced it Cuchullain in the North" - Note the
               "E"! - you need to add the "E" or you get a negative
               map reference digit!]
          
          H    What's a "Grail Knight"?  Since they all went looking
               for it and there is no clear list of who they all were,
               I must assume, for the question to make sense, that it
               means only those knights who actually achieved or saw
               the Grail.
          
               The obvious choices are Bors, Galahad, and Percival,
               though Lancelot got to see it a few times as well.
          
               Fortunately it is well documented who died last of
               these:  XVII:23 "When Percival and Bors saw Galahad
               dead" and "Sir Percival ... passed out of this world
               ... Bors let bury him";  and as for Lancelot, XXI:12
               "when Sir Bors and his fellows came to his bed they
               found him stark dead".
          
               So it is obviously Bors, right?
          
               BUT, what about Pelleas?  IV:28 - "Sir Pelleas ... was
               one of the four that achieved the Sangrail" and XIX:11
               - "... Nimue ... wedded Pelleas, and she saved him that
               he was never slain"!  If he was never slain, thanks to
               Nimue's magic, then he must surely be the the Grail
               Knight who lived longest!
          
               No?  Well the notes in the Penguin Edition reckon that
               the first reference was due to confusion with King
               Pelles, and the second reference doesn't discount the
               possibility of a natural death, and Bors is still
               mentioned as being around in the last chapter of MDA,
               so I suppose I'd better stick with Bors.
          
          I    OAFK p 346 (apparently you should have a black bar on
               it if you are a bastard!)
          
          J    The Once and Future King p.203 (between Wart's second
               and third attempts at the Sword in the Stone) refers to
               Luce.  Luce or Lucy is the Heraldic name for the Pike
               (fish, not weapon!).
          
          K    XI:3 "he was named Galahad because Lancelot was so
               named at the fountain stone".
          
          L    Brittanica calls the eagle the "symbol of Empire" and
               Geoffrey of Monmouth mentions it on page 251 in the
               Penguin Classics edition - when Arthur is fighting the
               Emperor Lucius the Emperor uses a golden eagle as his
               standard.  [And OAFK p 329 - "an emperor was allowed an
               eagle" during a discussion on hawking.]
          
          M    BT market a PC Clone called a "Merlin" - if that is not
               an "Arthurian Namesake" I don't know what is!  There
               also used to be a "Dragon" computer, and dragons occur,
               occasionally, in MDA.  But "Archimedes" makes the
               co-ordinate sums work, so Archimedes it must be!
          
          N    Hmmm.  Is Carbonek the same as Corben(ic)?  Does
               Lancelot count since he saw the Grail in Pelles' castle
               back in XI:2?  (And in XVII:15.)  Best to discount
               these for two reasons: first, XI:2 mentions "all that
               were there" without any further detail and would
               therefore make the question unanswerable; second, the
               question refers to a supernatural celebration of Mass,
               which presumably implies that we are only interested in
               the events around XVII:19.
          
               Everybody leaves apart from the three knights (Bors,
               Galahad, and Percival), King Pelles, Eliazar and an
               unnamed maid (Pelles' neice) - "and so these three
               fellows and they three were there, no more".  OK six so
               far.
          
               Then in come some more knights, three each from Gaul,
               Ireland, and Denmark (the four corners of the world?!).
               That makes fifteen.
          
               Then in comes the Maimed King, deposited by four
               gentlewomen who leave.  Sixteen.
          
               Pelles and Eliazar are told to leave as they are not of
               the quest - very specific: "There be two among you that
               be not in the quest of the Sangrail".  What about the
               niece?  Surely she wasn't in on the quest.  Ah! well -
               looks like she is still there.  That makes fourteen.
          
               [Apparently the question setters decided to count
               Lancelot - so the correct answer is 15.]
          
          O    At last another easy one!  Geoffrey of Monmouth wrote
               his History of the Kings of Britain in 1136.
          
          P    Yeucch!  They all had their names changed slightly as
               their stores were retold in different languages:
          
               Morrigu - Morgan
               Myrddin - Merlin
               Bedwyr - Bedivere
               Galaad  - Galahad
               Gwalchmai - Gawain
               Gwenhwyfar - Guenever
               Yugerne - Igraine
               Cei - Kay
               Lanzelot - Lancelot
               Medraut - Mordred
               Parsifal - Percival
               Drystan - Tristram
               Yseut - Isolde
               etc.
          
               Which one was changed to please the French?  Well, the
               only specific reference I can find is in "Albion: A
               Guide to Legendary Britain" which claims that the
               Modron was changed to Morgan by the Bretons.
          
               [Apparently the correct answer is Myrddin because it
               could be mispronounced as Merde-in and Merde is not a
               very nice word in French, not a very nice word at all!]
          
          Q    The Prescelly Hills - nice one!  Did you know there are
               at least 11 of Arthur's Quoits in the British Isles?
          
          R    Another nice easy one - why can't they all be like
               this!
          
          S    The historical Arthur was most likely late Fifth
               Century or early Sixth century.  Alfred was Ninth
               Century.  So is it three or is it four?
          
               Most of the events in the historical Arthur's life
               probably took part in the 6th Century.  Alfred lived in
               the 9th.  9 - 6 = 3?  Yes, but the dates aren't too
               precise, even ignoring the date on the Seige Perilous
               in MDA (454 years after the passion of Our Lord), there
               is still the problem that the use of dates based on the
               birth of Christ weren't introduced until the Synod of
               Whitby in 664.  For example Annales Cambriae (c. 960)
               referred to the Battle of Mount Badon as Year 72 and
               Arthur's death as Year 93, but doesn't say when Year 1
               was!
          
               Most analyses seem to put Badon between 489 and 518,
               though basing it on Bede and Gildas probably says no
               later than 503, and Arthur's death between 515 and 542.
               He was supposedly only 15 when he came to the crown,
               shortly before Badon, so was he born in the 470s?
               Alfred was born around 848, crowned in 871 and died in
               899 (probably!).  So each of the important dates for
               the two monarchs (birth, coronation, death) were almost
               certainly seperated by more than 350 years.  Rounding
               up gives four centuries difference.  This is more
               mathematically correct, so I'll go for it!












               Tel 0602-214925 (home)             18, Milldale Close
                   0602-415000 (work)             Clifton Village
                                                  Nottingham
                                                  NG11 8NU
                                                  12/3/89
                                                  [Originally 29/2/89]
          Dear Pete,
          
          
               My current answers to the Grail Quest are as follows:
          
          
          Location of Grail:  Cerne Giant  ST 666017
          
               [I actually got 6600x7 because I got question F right!
               (See below!) I failed on P so had no idea what the
               fifth digit was.  All comments in [] were added after
               the competition.]
          
          A 60
          B BEDEGRAINE
          C 3
          D 5
          E EXCALIBUR
          F 0!           [Right!]
          G GAWAIN(E)
          H BORS
          I WHITE
          J PIKE
          K GALAHAD
          L EAGLE
          M ARCHIMEDES
          N 14           [Wrong!]
          O MONMOUTH
          P MODRON       [Wrong!]
          Q KNIGHTS
          R APPLE
          S 4
          
