                 LANCELOT CONTEST 

Within the Lancelot game was a prize contest to 
find a solid silver grail, encrusted with jewels. 
It was found on 28/2/89, and this sheet contains 
full details of the contest so that you can test 
your wits against the winner. 


                   FIRST STAGE 

Treasure contests are risky things to design. Some 
are too easy (Cadbury's quest for golden Easter 
eggs resulted in some being dug up even before the 
questions were published) and others are too hard. 
(One pirate quest for a golden key and #50,000 has 
never been solved. The organisers say they are 
snowed under by letters from frustrated seekers, 
and would love to bring it to an end, but they 
can't legally change the terms). 

So I designed a two stage quest, with four initial 
rounds, one per month, each with nine winners to 
go on to the final. That way I would know how long 
the first stage would take, and could adjust the 
difficulty of the preliminary rounds if we were 
getting too many, or too few, winners. 


The preliminary contests all worked the same way. 
You 'phoned a special Grail Hotline to learn the 
current starting clue. For example, "Welcome to 
the Grail Hotline. The clue for October is a 
weighty matter". This meant the relevant clue 
words (all in capitals in the game text) were 
those in the same sentence as something to do with 
weight, e.g pound, ounce, ton. You sorted them 
into a description of an Arthurian place, often 
referring to its legends, which they also spelt 
with their first or last letters. In the example, 
the words are found near Merlin's house, "MERLIN'S 
GIANT MICRO UPON THE HEATH; THE WELL-KNOWN 
STANDING CIRCLE", and spell "STONEHENGE". 

(When the example was printed in the instructions, 
a zealous proof-reader removed the hyphen! 
STONEHELNGE? But people coped). 

The first four telephone clues were as follows. 
(Their answers are in brackets, but I've replaced 
each letter by the one before it in the alphabet,  
eg dwzlokd means example, so that you won't read 
them by accident): 

1. "Welcome to the Grail Hotline. The clue scent 
   for October 17 to November 7 is one to savour. 
   Don't let it drive you balmy and remember that 
   all smell that end smell". (sgd hrsgrltr 
   mzqqnvr sn z fqzrrx dwonrdc kzmc: shmszfdk).  

2. "Welcome to the Grail Hotline. The clue for 
   November 8 to December 6 is another chance to 
   feather your nest. Remember, a Grail in the 
   hand is worth two in the bush". 
   Or "Fair are fowl, and fowl are fair. Hover on 
   the wing through the windy air". 
   (zqsgtq khdr cddo dmsnladc; qnbjx ktlor 
   dladkkhrg xnmcdq dlhmdmbd'r czlo fqhsrsnmd 
   drbzqoldms: zkcdqkdx dcfd). 

3. "Welcome to the Grail Hotline. The first two 
   places were ??? and ???; the third is near 
   Snowdon and its clues are linked with fish". 
   (cdedmcdc hmgzahszshnm mdzq zmfkdrdx; rsnqlr 
   dmrgqntc ldqkhm'r qhbg xdkknv rdbqds: chmzr 
   dlqxr). 

4. "Welcome to the Grail Hotline. Make sure you 
   enter the last part. The clues are linked with 
   treasure, but you only need the answer, which 
   is a confused 'lost barn guy'". (hmrohqhmf 
   jmnkk. Zqhlhsgdz inrdog'r kdes knmf-zfn 
   gzvsgnqm rgqta. Xnt sntq zaadx: fkzrsnmatqx). 

Number 4 was deliberately made a bit easier with 
the 'lost barn guy' addition, because people had 
found part 2 quite difficult (I think less than 9 
solved it and so they all went through to the 
final) and I wasn't sure whether we would have 
enough winners. But there was no problem. 


The finalists were: 
  P Armstrong, Tyne & Wear   N F Beric, Leics             
  R Blyth, Warwicks          P Brizell, Cheshire 
  T Cloke, London            L Crossley, Cumbria 
  B L Crowther,S Humberside  M Duce, Shropshire 
  P Early, E Sussex          C A Ferns, Aberdeen 
  J Geisler, Manchester      C Gilroy, Bucks 
  J Gregory, Dorset          R C L Hall, Oxon 
  N Hay, Avon                M J Lear, Shropshire 
  M Lock, Glos               Mr Marshall, Cheshire 
  D W Matthews, Beds         E M Mitchell,Cheshire 
  B Moore, Peterborough      G Osborne, Herts 
  S Parkes, Notts            M D Penketh, Hants 
  B Poulton, Glos            M Revell, London 
  P D Richmond, Lancs        Mr Robertson, London 
  N R Shipman, Avon          R G Stamp, Beds 
  J Sweeney, Notts           S & J Thompson,Staffs 
  A Townhill, Manchester     G C Vincent, Norfolk 
  J Warrillow, Birmingham    M Young, Hants 


                     THE FINAL

The final was based on Arthurian general knowledge 
and needed quite a bit of research. Mandarin 
warned the finalists of the date when they would 
get the questions (which led to quite a security 
problem, because the easiest way of winning might 
have been to search the contents of my dustbin the 
previous week!) and then sent out roughly the 
following to the finalists: 


"Your aim is to work out the name of the famous 
place where the Grail is 'hidden', and send this 
answer in by post. 

1) Each of the nineteen questions, A-S, has a one 
   word answer. (To give some wrong examples, if 
   the questing beast was sixteen dog-power, 
   Lancelot's father helped Arthur in Camelot, and 
   the four queens stand near Arthur's grave, the 
   answers to A, B and Q respectively would be 16, 
   CAMELOT and QUEENS). 

2) Each answer is converted to a one-digit number:  
   * If it's a word, replace each of the letters 
     by its position in the alphabet (A=1,B=2,C=3 
     ... Z=26) and add them up. So CAMELOT becomes 
     3+1+13+5+12+15+20 = 69. (If the answer is 
     already a number, you don't need this first 
     stage of course). 
   * If the number is bigger than nine, add its 
     digits together. So 69 becomes 6+9 = 15. 
   * If the new number is still bigger than nine, 
     repeat the process until a one-digit number 
     is left. So 16 becomes 1+5 = 6. 
   * (So, taking the examples above: 16, CAMELOT 
     and QUEENS would become 7, 6 and 9). 

3) The answers from above build up into a 6-digit 
   map reference (you will have to guess the 
   letters at the front of the reference), using 
   the following formula: 
               First digit:  A+B-Q 
               Second digit: C+D-O 
               Third digit:  E+F-R 
               Fourth digit: G-H+L 
               Fifth digit:  I+J-P 
               Sixth digit:  K+M-S 
   (Again, taking the incorrect example above, the 
   first digit of the map reference would be four: 
   A+B-Q = 7+6-9 = 4). 

4) Use a map to find the name of the famous place 
   at the map reference. Write this down. 

5) The winner was basically the first person to 
   find the grail and write in. But each correct 
   answer A-S was worth 1 day so e.g an entry with 
   only 13 right answers posted on the 10th would 
   be beaten by one with 19 correct on the 15th. 

6) If there was no outright winner by the end of 
   the month, the grail would have gone to whoever 
   got most questions right. 

Here are the individual questions. You may need to 
refer to the Penguin English Library version of Le 
Morte D'Arthur, and to Arthurian books in general, 
but I promise that I have avoided obscure sources 
for the information. I wish you all luck. 

A. How many hound-power was the Questing Beast? 
B. Where did Lancelot's father greatly help Arthur? 
C. How many times did Lancelot rescue Guenever at 
   the stake? 
D. How many brothers/half-brothers, had Mordred? 
E. Which sword's name meant it could cut steel? 
F. How many Round Table knights were present when 
   the Grail appeared at Pentecost? [In the 
   contest, I mistakenly asked how many saw it]. 
G. Who was also called Cuchullain? 
H. Who of Arthur's Grail Knights lived longest? 
I. What colour was a new knight's shield? 
J. What exactly was Lucy? 
K. What was Lancelot's real name? 
L. Emperors' bird.  
M. Arthurian namesake of computer. 
N. Assuming the celebrants of Mass were 
   supernatural, how many mortals saw the Grail in 
   Castle Carbonek? [Please assume that Corbin is 
   a different castle altogether]. 
O. Where was Geoffrey the writer from? 
P. Someone's original name was slightly changed to 
   please the French. What was it? 
Q. Who stand near Arthur's grave, between his sons 
   and his quoit? 
R. Kind of tree which may have grown on the Isle 
   of Avalon. 
S. The historical Arthur seems to have been a war 
   leader similar to Alfred the Great. How many 
   centuries apart were they?" 



                     SOLUTION 
          
John Sweeney found the grail in a week (which was 
just about as long as I had taken to work out the 
questions!). And he was good enough to provide the 
following notes to explain how he did it. 

(MDA and chapter numbers refer to Penguin edition 
of Le Morte D'Arthur. OAFK is The Once and Future 
King, 1967 Fontana Edition. Square brackets mark 
comments by Pete. Answer words are in the same 
code as before - replace each letter by the one 
following - and answer numbers have been written 
as words and encoded too).
          


A  [Rhwsx. MDA page 46 book I:20]. 
   The very first reference to the beast in MDA 
   (I:19) is "thought he heard a noise of hounds 
   to the sum of thirty". But later in the same 
   paragraph it is "thirty couple", likewise in 
   IX:12 and X:13. In the first reference Arthur 
   only THOUGHT it sounded like thirty, and it was 
   in the distance. Therefore I assume that the 
   answer is rhwsx.
          
B  [Adcdfqzhmd. MDA page 29 book I:12-16].
   Most sources seem to agree that Lancelot's 
   father was Ban of Benwick. Ban came to Arthur's 
   aid in the great battle that took place near 
   the Castle of Adcdfqzhmd. At the end of I:18, 
   MDA calls this as "the battle of Adcdfqzhmd".
          
C  [Sgqdd. MDA p383-6, XVIII:6-7; p443-444, XIX:9; 
   p470-2 XX:8].  
   XVIII:4 - Guenever is to be burnt; XVIII:7 - 
   Lancelot defeats Mador to save her. XIX:9 
   "speak we of Queen Guenever that was brought to 
   a fire to be burnt"; Lancelot fought to prove 
   her innocence and thus rescued her from the 
   stake. XX:8 is titled "How Sir Lancelot and his 
   kinsmen rescued the queen from fire..." 'nuff 
   said?
          
   Or, OAFK p 502 "Lancelot was, in the end, to 
   fight for the Queen at the stake sgqdd times".
          
D  [Ehud. Borre, Gawaine, Agravaine, Gaheris, 
   Gareth. MDA page 42 book I:17; p45 book I:19]. 

   This all depends on who was actually Mordred's 
   Mother and Father! MDA gives his mother as 
   Morgause, but most other sources reckon on 
   Morgana, some even going so far as to suggest 
   that even if, as in MDA, Morgause appears to be 
   the mother, it was still achieved by Morgana's 
   witchcraft! But, MDA says Morgause, so Morgause 
   it is. In MDA Morgause has four other sons: 
   Gawain, Agravaine, Gaheris and Gareth (I:19).
          
   MDA leaves the revelation of Mordred's father 
   till near the end: XX:19 - "Sir Mordred was 
   King Arthur's son" and XXI:1 "King Arthur begat 
   you", though the second quotation does not 
   appear in the 1901 McMillan edition, presumably 
   it is from the Winchester Manuscript discovered 
   in 1934. So, how many other sons did Arthur 
   have? MDA gives us only Borre (I:17) but 
   Nennias and others mention Amr (also known as 
   Anir) and there is also a Llacheu. 

   I assume MDA is to be treated as the "bible" so 
   I'll stick at ehud! 
          
E  [Dwbzkhatq. MDA p64, II:3]. Thank Heavens for 
   the easy ones!
          
F  [gtmcqdczmcehesx. MDA p93, III:1. Round Table 
   seats gtmcqdczmcehesx when full. But John was 
   answering the question "how many saw the grail" 
   and correctly answered 0]. 

   0. XIII:7 "it was ... covered". Sneaky!

   (Post-competition addendum:  apparently the 
   answer required here was gtmcqdczmcehesx - the 
   full complement of the Round Table - but the 
   question setter failed to note the words 
   "covered with white samite, but there was none 
   might see it" and Galahad's speech which 
   started the Quest: "but one thing beguiled us, 
   we might not see the Holy Grail... wherefore... 
   I shall labour in the quest of the Sangrail." 
   - this meant that my third map reference digit 
   was wrong, but I decided to submit it anyway!) 
          
G  [Fzvzhmd. OAFK page 625, Candle in the Wind 
   chapter 13]. 
   I thought we were sticking to "Lancelot - The 
   Computer Game" spellings!  [OAFK p 625 - 
   "Fzvzhmd...they would have pronounced it 
   Cuchullain in the North" - Note the "E"! - you 
   need to add the "E" or you get a negative map 
   reference digit!]
          
H  [Anqr. MDA page 365, XVII:20; page 370-1, 
   XVII:23; page 530, XXI:13]. 
   What's a "Grail Knight"?  Since they all went 
   looking for it and there is no clear list of 
   who they all were, I must assume, for the 
   question to make sense, that it means only 
   those knights who actually achieved or saw the 
   Grail.
          
   The obvious choices are Anqr, Galahad, and 
   Percival, though Lancelot got to see it a few 
   times as well. Fortunately it is well 
   documented who died last of these: XVII:23 
   "When Percival and Anqr saw Galahad dead" and 
   "Sir Percival ... passed out of this world ... 
   Anqr let bury him"; and as for Lancelot, XXI:12
   "when Sir Anqr and his fellows came to his bed 
   they found him stark dead". So it is obviously 
   Anqr, right?
          
   BUT, what about Pelleas?  IV:28 - "Sir Pelleas 
   ... was one of the four that achieved the 
   Sangrail" and XIX:11 - "... Nimue ... wedded 
   Pelleas, and she saved him that he was never 
   slain"! If he was never slain, thanks to 
   Nimue's magic, then he must surely be the the 
   Grail Knight who lived longest!
          
   No? Well the notes in the Penguin Edition 
   reckon that the first reference was due to 
   confusion with King Pelles [Malory was prone to 
   get his sources confused - cf all the Elaines 
   and maimed kings], and the second reference 
   doesn't discount the possibility of a natural 
   death, and Anqr is still mentioned as being 
   around in the last chapter of MDA, so I suppose 
   I'd better stick with Anqr.
          
I  [Vghsd. OAFK p346, Ill-made Knight chapter 7]. 
   (Apparently you should have a black bar across 
   it if you are a bastard). 
          
J  [Ohjd. Concise Encyclopedia of Heraldry, p334]. 
   The Once and Future King p.203 (between Wart's 
   second and third attempts at the Sword in the 
   Stone) refers to Luce. Luce or Lucy is the 
   Heraldic name for the Ohjd (fish, not weapon!).
          
K  [Fzkzgzc. OAFK page 193 book XI:20]. 
   XI:3 "he was named Fzkzgzc because Lancelot was 
   so named at the fountain stone".
          
L  [Dzfkd. OAFK p329, Ill-made Knight ch 4. 
   Hawking convention]. 
   Brittanica calls the dzfkd the "symbol of 
   Empire" and Geoffrey of Monmouth mentions it on 
   page 251 in the Penguin Classics edition - when 
   Arthur is fighting the Emperor Lucius the 
   Emperor uses a golden dzfkd as his standard.  
   (And OAFK p 329 - "an emperor was allowed an 
   dzfkd" for hawking). 
          
M  [Zqbghldcdr. OAFK p30,Sword in the Stone ch 3]. 
   BT market a PC Clone called a "Merlin" - if 
   that is not an "Arthurian Namesake" I don't 
   know what is! There also used to be a "Dragon" 
   computer, and dragons occur, occasionally, in 
   MDA. But "Zqbghldcdr" makes the coordinate 
   sums work, so Zqbghldcdr it must be!
   
   [Zqbghldcdr is Merlin's Owl in OAFK, and Acorn 
   have used an owl since the early days of the 
   BBC Micro. When the owl symbol was inherited by 
   their new computer, which needed a name, I am 
   convinced they were aware of the reference]. 
       
N  [Ehesddm. Lancelot: page 353, book XVII:15. 
   Maimed King, 12 Grail Knights and nun:page 363, 
   book XVII:20]. 

   Hmmm. Is Carbonek the same as Corben(ic)? Does 
   Lancelot count since he saw the Grail in 
   Pelles' castle back in XI:2? (And in XVII:15). 
   Best to discount these for two reasons: first, 
   XI:2 mentions "all that were there" without any 
   further detail and would therefore make the 
   question unanswerable; second, the question 
   refers to a supernatural celebration of Mass, 
   which presumably implies that we are only 
   interested in the events around XVII:19.
          
   Everybody leaves apart from the three knights 
   (Bors, Galahad, and Percival), King Pelles, 
   Eliazar and an unnamed maid (Pelles' niece) - 
   "and so these three fellows and they three 
   were there, no more". OK six so far.
          
   Then in come some more knights, three each from 
   Gaul, Ireland, and Denmark (the four corners of 
   the world?!). Then the Maimed King, deposited 
   by four gentlewomen who leave. Sixteen.
          
   Pelles and Eliazar are told to leave as they 
   are not of the quest - very specific: "There be 
   two among you that be not in the quest of the 
   Sangrail". What about the niece? Surely she 
   wasn't in on the quest. Ah! well - looks like 
   she is still there. That makes fourteen.
          
   [This answer was not used in calculating the 
   map reference precisely because it needed too 
   many decisions as to who to count. Especially 
   concerning the maid/nun, who may have been a 
   mistake of Malory's. Hence it did not matter 
   that John omitted Lancelot and so was one out]. 

O  [Lnmlntsg. Eg MDA page vii, introduction ch I]. 
   At last another easy one! Geoffrey of Monmouth 
   wrote his History of the Kings of Britain in 
   1136.
          
P  [Lxqcchm. Most of the characters had their 
   names changed, and it's still happening now, as 
   witness Morgan le Fay being renamed Morgana in 
   films to make her sound female. But Merlin is 
   the famous one, said to have been changed 
   because his original name sounds like Merde-in]. 

   Yeucch! They all had their names changed 
   slightly as their stores were retold in 
   different languages. Which one was changed to 
   please the French?  Well, the only specific 
   reference I can find is in "Albion: A Guide to 
   Legendary Britain" which claims that the Modron 
   was changed to Morgan by the Bretons.
          
Q  [Jmhfgsr. Folklaw of Prehistoric Sites in 
   Britain, Crinsell, fig 14 p240. They are 
   neighbouring stones etc]. 
   The Prescelly Hills - nice one! Did you know 
   there are at least 11 of Arthur's Quoits in the 
   British Isles?
          
R  [Zookd. Avalonian Quest, Ashe, Page 51 ch 3.2. 
   The Isle of Avalon is said to either mean "Isle 
   of Zookdr", or to refer to a former ruler]. 
   Another nice easy one - why can't they all be 
   like this!
          
S  [Entq. Mons Badonis battle:500 AD approx. 
   Alfred:871-899]. 

   The historical Arthur was most likely late 
   Fifth Century or early Sixth century. Alfred was 
   Ninth. So, three or four?
          
   Most of the events in the historical Arthur's 
   life probably took part in the 6th Century. 
   Alfred lived in the 9th. 9-6=3?  Yes, but the 
   dates aren't too precise, even ignoring the 
   date on the Seige Perilous in MDA (454 years 
   after the passion of Our Lord), there is still 
   the problem that the use of dates based on the 
   birth of Christ weren't introduced until the 
   Synod of Whitby in 664. For example Annales 
   Cambriae (c. 960) referred to the Battle of 
   Mount Badon [a victory at the start of Arthur's 
   "reign"] as Year 72 and Arthur's death as Year 
   93, but doesn't say when Year 1 was!
          
   Most analyses seem to put Badon between 489 and 
   518 though basing it on Bede and Gildas 
   probably says no later than 503, and Arthur's 
   death between 515 and 542. He was supposedly 
   only 15 when he came to the crown, shortly 
   before Badon, so was he born in the 470s? 
   Alfred was born around 848, crowned in 871 and 
   died in 899 (probably!). So each of the 
   important dates for the two monarchs (birth, 
   coronation, death) were almost certainly 
   separated by more than 350 years. Rounding up 
   gives four centuries difference. This is more 
   mathematically correct, so I'll go for it!


[John therefore got sixteen of the nineteen 
answers correct; missing out on "F" because of a 
mistake in the question, "N" because of deciding 
to exclude Lancelot, and he did not get "P". 

Thus his map reference was 6600x7, because he got 
question F "right" and so was 600 metres out. He 
failed on "P" so had no idea what the fifth digit 
was. Fortunately this was good enough, when 
combined a bit of experimentation. 

John deduced that the true location was ST 666017, 
where there is a well-known chalk figure, in 
outline, of a male giant waving a club. The grail 
was "at" the Cerne Abbas Giant in Dorset]. 
          
My congratulations to John Sweeney and to all the 
many people who entered the contest - Pete Austin. 
