
        SCAPEGHOST DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 4/12/1988 LEVEL 9
        -------------------------------------------------- 

                        DESIGN OUTLINE 

The game was a three-part graphical adventure, written in the first 
person past tense (like this design). It could be played as three 
separate games, but the idea was to play them in sequence to reenact 
the tale of how I, in the three nights following my death, brought 
my murders to justice and saved my partner's life.  

I was one of two investigators spying on a gang of drug dealers. 
Unfortunately things went wrong, the gang realised what was going 
on, killed me and were holding my colleague, Sarah Pearson, as a 
hostage. When their plans came to fruition, they planned to kill 
her and move out.  

I was unjustly blamed for the debacle and, in the way of ghosts, I 
remained behind to right the wrong of my murder. I had three nights 
to develop my powers as a ghost, learn the plans of the gang, bring 
them to justice and free myself. 


                         INTRODUCTION

Scapeghost needed no background story; just a 20-page manual, three 
programs and some freebies. The short intro went much as follows.. 

"I wondered if this was what amnesia was like. I could remember 
nothing since driving to the meet with the drug gang that I and 
Sarah had infiltrated. Now I stood to attention on the end of the 
rank of police, staring forward as a priest read platitudes. 

'I wonder which poor sod got it this time', I thought, and peered 
sideways at the grave. 

When the mourners filed away, ignoring me, I was still rooted to the 
spot. The name on the tombstone was my own." 

The three adventure programs each reenacted one night. They were 
"Ghost", "Haunted House" and "Poltergeist". 


NIGHT 1: NOVEMBER GRAVEYARD

New ghosts are invisible, have no special powers, and must remain 
very near their graves. Part 1 was entirely set in the Victorian 
graveyard and involved interaction with the other ghosts and a stray 
dog. I could not, as yet, affect the physical world much. Movement 
was generally slow and dream-like. 

Initially I could pick up either of the two lightest objects. But 
picking up any object increased my strength (I was told when this 
happened) so that I could pick up slightly heavier things - always 
being capable of lifting the three light objects just heavier than 
the heaviest carried so far. Only one thing at a time, though. Once 
I was strong enough to pick up the heaviest light object, I was able 
to push static objects and rock light examples (e.g the Urn). 

The presence of humans was somewhat distressing, after the initial 
set-piece scenes, and I felt as if starting to fade when they looked 
in my direction. I dropped anything carried and could not do 
anything active to objects when people were around. 


The game started beside my grave, with the mourners about to leave. 
They followed their own racetracks, through the main gate and out of 
the game. No interaction was possible (the idea being to demonstrate 
how difficult it is for ghosts to affect the living), but a few 
clues could be gained by following police, so as to eavesdrop on 
their conversations. It seemed that sergeant Pearson had not 
reported in, but there had been an anonymous phone call, suggesting 
that she was held hostage. 

There was also a journalist, asking stupid questions of the "And 
what did you think about the play, Mrs Lincoln?" variety. 

A lone mourner, standing in the crowd, did not leave straightway 
with the others but wandered through the cemetery, pausing to light 
a cigarette (dropping the empty match book on the ground) and pat 
the lid of a great stone vault. Then I remembered where I had seen 
him before: it was with the crooks. Putting two-and-two together, I 
realised that this must be the hiding place for the drugs and, from 
the copy of the Mail in his pocket, that tomorrow was the date they 
would be sold. The "mourner" walked off through the twilight mists. 

Meanwhile, a workman had walked from his shed (leaving the door open 
so the inside could be inspected) and trudged through the fallen 
leaves to the deserted grave. Working steadily, he transferred the 
nearby mound of earth into the grave, then placed the wreaths on top. 

And meanwhile, his supervisor arrived in a small electrical cart and 
walked around the graveyard gathering up faded flowers to place on a 
heap behind the shed. (Such people occasionally made comments about 
thinking themselves watched, looking through me, to emphasise the 
fact that I was a ghost). 

These two met at the shed and went inside, switching on its naked 
bulb. This was visible outside and a message at that location 
mentioned the light shining out whenever the bulb was on. (If I had 
been inside, the sudden shock of the light would have caused me to 
black out - reawakening beside my grave). They soon left, first 
switching on the spotlight that illuminated the "church repair fund" 
thermometer (which would have affected me similarly), then walking 
to the electric cart and driving away. There was no opportunity to 
sneak into the shed. 

Shortly afterwards, twilight gave way to darkness and I found myself 
back beside my grave. (This onset of darkness triggered the dog and 
the ghosts to emerge and start their racetracks, and also caused the 
setting up of a whole new set of "first time in room" messages.) 

The rest of the design for this part relates to night time... 

* My Grave. I returned here abruptly whenever I was overwhelmed by 
light etc. The wreath on the grave was used to placate Edna Willmot. 

* Danby's Grave. Joe Danby was a former innkeeper, who came over to 
welcome me to the cemetery and escorted me about - lightening part 1 
with his "graveyard humour" (as he called it). His headstone had a 
lavish testimony to how well he was liked in the village. Joe was 
worried about his fate in the afterlife - as he said, "The Bible 
doesn't have much good to say about publicans" - but he helped 
willingly and was the main character in this part. 

* New Graves. Depressing cot-shaped beds of white gravel. 

* Willmot Graves. Despite their joint tombstone reading "reunited", 
they were anything but. They argued about everything, including the 
fact that Edna (who died exactly a year after Bert) had her name 
carved first on the inscription. 

Their daughter still brought two wreaths on the anniversary and 
Edna's had faded slightly faster and been discarded by the Supervisor 
before dark. When I replaced this (putting Edna's card in my wreath 
and getting the dog to carry it across), they helped grudgingly. 
Before this, Bert would not move lest Edna stole his wreath, and Edna 
would not help until Bert returned the wreath that she thought he had 
hidden to spite her. (She would have refused to believe the faded 
wreath was her own, by the way.) 

* Copper Beech. I examined the jumbled stonework beneath and it 
turned out to be (i.e was replaced by) a pile of broken carvings 
and a plinth. After nightfall, a statue of a man, lying on his back, 
was seen on examining the plinth. Hitting etc the statue revealed it 
as the ghost of Alex Pym, who chanted some gibberish about nine 
overthrowing the church and was willing to help. If left without 
commands, though, he tended to return to his plinth and resume the 
appearance of a statue. 

* Sundial. When pushed repeatedly by at least two people, it rocked 
more and more and eventually fell over - breaking and allowing the 
gnomon to be taken to Edith to satisfy the "end of time" puzzle. 

* Ridge Grave. David Ridge leaned against his splendid marble 
sarcophagus and arrogantly refused to help any newcomer. He showed 
off his poltergeist powers by casually rocking a nearby urn and 
would only help when I had trained my powers enough to do likewise 
(by moving steadily heavier objects). 

* Shed. At the start, I could walk at will into the shed, but then 
the workman returned and first switched on its light bulb (banishing 
any ghosts inside) and then locked the door on leaving. 

To enter afterwards, I needed the help of others: ghosts to open the 
lock (three pushed back the levers while one turned the lock barrel) 
and the dog to push open the shed door. 

The dog wandered about, coughing horribly, for on examination a tiny 
chicken bone could be seen lodged in its throat. It was scared of 
ghosts and snarled at me, fur bristling, but when I kneeled down and 
spoke softly (or similar; for a few turns?) it seemed to calm down. 
(It did not like being patted by a ghost, though.) When I could get 
close enough to it, I grabbed the bone and it came free - the dog 
was off in a panic, but it returned a little afterwards and was 
fairly cooperative. 

Thereafter, the dog followed me about and seemed interested in 
whatever I was keen on. It could not follow orders, not being able 
to hear me, but would follow my example. If I made as if to push 
something, it would do likewise, and if I tried to pick something up 
a couple of times (failing because it was too heavy) it would get 
the idea and carry it. Only one thing at a time. Thus the dog could 
carry the wreath for Edna. 

The dog was the only one strong enough to pull the rope handle which 
opened the shed door (once unlocked). Once inside, it immediately 
grabbed the carrier bag containing the biscuits etc kept by the 
workman for his tea and was off, never to return. (If it hadn't 
carried the wreath to Edna by this point, I would have felt very 
uneasy - with the sense of something left undone).

Opening the door rang a bell attached to this. I took it for Violet.  

Inside was the switch for the spotlight. It took two ghosts to push 
hard enough to move the switch - turning the spotlight on/off. Also 
there was a pull cord to switch the bulb on/off. 

* Colonel's grave. The colonel followed a group of "vandals" about, 
muttering about the youth of today as they joked and shared a 
bottle of vodka. He was glad to see a policeman and promised to 
help once these yobbos had been chased off. 

The vandals wandering about the west of the cemetery barely noticed 
the spotlight going off (except to joke about a dead bulb - "this 
is the right place for it"), but they interpreted the shed light 
going on as meaning the priest was prowling about and left rapidly 
through a gap in the hedge behind the elder bushes. 

I found it difficult to remain near the vandals, by the way, as 
whenever they looked directly at (or through) me, I started to fade. 

* Pruned Branches. Examine the Heap of Branches to find the Faded 
Wreath which in turn contained Edna's card. 

* Violet's Grave. Violet Conway had gone blind, as she aged before 
death, and now did not feel easy wandering about. In her prattle, 
she mentioned finding her way by sound, so I attached a bell from 
the shed to a nearby bush. Then she would help. 

* Edith's Grave. Edith Dean was an unhappy ghost who felt that she 
was cursed to remain beside her grave until the end of time. I could 
achieve this, so that she would help, in one of several ways: 
- write "time" in the gravel of her grave and then erase it. 
- if two ghosts cooperated to push the sundial, it rocked more and 
  more and eventually fell and broke. The gnomon was taken to her. 
- drop the watch in the vase on her grave. 
- search twice beside the elder bushes to find a copy of Time 
  magazine. When taken to her, she lit and destroyed it. 

* Path+Vault. Joe Danby revealed the weakness of the wall behind the 
giant thermometer, "There's no point in collecting money; the first 
storm of winter will have this lot down. I can see the cracks deep 
in the stone". 

If all nine ghosts pushed the thermometer simultaneously (or nearly 
so?) the wall around it collapsed, trapping the drugs hoard in the 
vault. 

When several ghosts all pushed in the same turn, by the way, 
messages were output to describe an increasing tempest. If we all 
pushed together, the winds were irresistably strong, and it was this 
that toppled the wall and ended this part of the game. 

* Lit areas. The three southernmost locations were inaccessible 
after dark because of the effect of street lamps. The other areas 
south of my grave were accessible, but when the spotlight was on 
it weakened the ghosts so that they could do nothing except float 
about and complain. 



NIGHT 2: HAUNTED HOUSE

By the next night, my powers had grown and I could roam abroad, 
reach the criminals' house and walk through doors (not yet walls). 

The gang had moved out hurridly, though the house was not empty, 
but guarded by a homicidal ghost. I found enough evidence to 
convict them, and also the location where they had moved, and 
arranged for everything to get to the police. 

I 'phoned their new address for a final check, and listened as the 
telephone was answered. "Hello Sarah", I said without surprise. 
Up to now, no living being had been able to hear me, so imagine my 
shock when she slammed the receiver down, "But you're dead!" 

* Old Village Green. Cars occasionally crossed the Old Village 
Green, lighting it and the adjacent. On venturing onto the South 
Green, return south unless it is quiet and then try again (this 
should be coded in such a way that a car never appears instantly). 

* Astral Images. Some first-time messages in the house hinted at 
the shadows of previous events, as did some of Joe's comments 
about me summoning the echos of past violence. If I concentrated 
these became clear, though there were simply "too many ghosts" 
in graveyard locations. 

There was a list of 10 message numbers for each room, representing 
the events for the time when I had been captured. There was a 
counter for time, started when I concentrated and stopped if I 
stopped concentrating, did anything except moving or waiting, or 
when the tenth message was reached. Concentrating again picked up 
from the current time, or the beginning if the end had been 
reached. Zero entries were reported by "time passed" and the next 
non-zero message. The end was represented by "the images faded". 

The events corresponded to my capture, the death of one of the 
gang and their flight, as seen and/or heard from the various rooms 
of the house. Highlights are: 
= I listen through door to crooks in next room, then sneak outside, 
  meanwhile everyone else plays cards and talks in the kitchen; 
= I bury ID card and return inside, meanwhile Susan betrays me, 
  though this is not obvious yet; 
= I listen through door again and dial police from hall, meanwhile 
  one crook gets up and heads to my room with gun; 
= I wait for answer - crook enters with gun, he makes me back away, 
  grabs 'phone, listens and replaces it; crook points gun at me and 
  shouts a question about whether I had told anything to the police. 
= we struggle and gun goes off, killing crook; 
= crooks surround me before I can escape, body taken upstairs ; 
= body taken to loft, other crooks spread out through downstairs; 
= body hidden in tank and crooks return to landing, other crooks 
  tidy downstairs and eg burn papers in fireplace; 
= all crooks return to hall;  
= everybody leaves house, carrying me.  

Watching all this reveals the burning of paper in the fireplace 
(the note with the gambling debts lodges in the chimney), and the 
position of my ID card in the garden (it can't be found without 
this knowledge). There is a standard message for examining things 
in the vision - basically, can't see more details. 

* Lounge. Echos showed the burning of several papers in the grate, 
and it seemed that a record of the gang's gambling score was 
carried up the chimney. 

Reaching through the wall, I could feel the unburnt paper, but the 
chimney breast stuck out a long way into the room and I could not 
push it far enough for it to drop off the back of the ledge. The 
adjacent wall was thin, however, so I told someghost to reach 
through it and wait - then I went outside, saw the ghostly arm and 
knew where to reach through the wall to find the paper. I pulled 
it and it fell down into the lounge. 

There were two Johns in the gang, so they were shown by Christian 
name and initial of surname. One was uncommon (Q), and useful to 
the police as it corresponded to the owner of the new hideout.  

Creating a draught up the chimney was a good idea and nearly 
worked, but just blew the paper to the back of its shelf. 

* Garden. On entering, I had a feeling that something might be 
hidden here, but I couldn't find it until after seeing the echo of 
its hiding. After this, I had only to search. 

At the bottom of the garden was a ditch, carrying only a trickle 
of water but I was unable to cross flowing water. Likewise, I could 
not reach a hand-drawn map (mentioning that the hideout was a 
farm) hanging from a twig in the middle of the trickle until I 
used temperature control to freeze the water. 

Creating a draught would only have blown the map away. 

* Hall. The upstairs was haunted by an extremely vicious ghost; 
a gang member killed in my attempt to escape. On going upstairs, 
he did his best to strangle the life out of me (I felt myself 
fading) and would have succeeded if Joe had not arrived to drag 
me free. (If someghost else was sent upstairs first, the ghost 
banished them for the rest of this night.)  

The stairs had a switch and a bulb at the top and bottom. When 
the light was switched on, the vicious ghost was banished: 
= But had I done this, the lower light would have got me and, by 
  the time I recovered, so had he. 
= Asking Joe to do it banished him (score penalty). 
= Best was to first remove the downstairs lightbulb. 

Unfortunately, while the upstairs light was on, some light shone 
down into the hall and sapped my strength sufficiently that I 
couldn't move the switch. So, to turn the light off, I removed 
the kitchen bulb and either wrapped it in foil and replaced it, 
or just pushed foil into the socket. This blew the fuse when the 
kitchen light was turned on. 

Lightbulbs broke and vanished if dropped (even if automatically). 

A telephone directory rested beside the telephone in the alcove 
below the stairs. I couldn't read it, because the paper looked 
translucent to me and the words were kind of jumbled together. 
However, the bookmark was actually an envelope whose postmark 
matched the town on the sales ticket. If two ghosts pulled at 
once, it came free and made another piece of evidence. 

The telephone did not work because its wire was broken, except for 
a mysterious call which I made at the end of this part - when my 
ghostly powers had grown and I seemed able to use it anyway. 
This was just a message. 

* Kitchen. An unstoppered bottle of whisky on the windowsill was 
evidence of the gang's rapid departure. I pushed this over to 
spill its contents and charged the vapour, causing a spark which 
ignited it. The resulting blaze was short lived, until I caused 
a draught to blow them onto the curtains. The resulting blaze 
alerted the fire brigade. The firemen then had the oportunity to 
see any evidence in view, though they had difficulty seeing in 
the smoke and ignored anything but the body. 

I therefore put the evidence beside the body or preferably in 
his jeans' pocket. 

* Attic. The focus for the vicious ghost is the dead body of a 
gang member, hidden in the cold water tank. (The water supply was 
turned off). Examining the tank was not enough as the lid was on 
(there was just a gap in one corner); I had to go into it to see 
the gruesome sight - pushing the lid in my escape. 

When firemen or police arrived, they would not notice any of the 
other evidence that I might have left for them - kicking papers 
to one side - because the search for the gang was leaving them 
so short staffed. But but they could hardly miss a body. So I 
had to get this somewhere visible for them to find. 

There was an extension lead in the attic, with a plug on one end 
and a socket on the other. These two ends are distinct, linked, 
objects (when one is moved within a location, or to the location 
containing the other, the other does not move - otherwise it 
follows to where the moving end was). 

Attach one end to the body (the text describes this as being done 
by freezing) and jam the other in the door of the Grandfather 
Clock on the landing below. Then push the clock and it tows 
everything to the foot of the stairs. 

* Bathroom. Examining the mirror reveals that ghosts don't have 
reflections. I reached through it to find a hiding place beyond, 
and broke the mirror by hitting it with (or when carrying) any 
hard object. In the hollow beyond was an empty briefcase, 
contaminated with drugs and with a price ticket from a store in 
the town where the gang had now gone. 

* Evidence. The body was sufficient to detain the firemen and get 
the police. The function of the individual pieces was as follows.. 
= Identity card: linked the body with me, and hence the gang; 
= Envelope: postmark shows a town; 
= Briefcase: price ticket shows same town, confirming that the 
  police should switch their search there; 
= Map: mentions a farm; 
= Paper has the surname initials of two people, one of whom was 
  the owner of the farm. 
Joe gave hints and comments as I assembled evidence - so that the 
risk of calling in the Authorities early was reduced. 



NIGHT 3: POLTERGEIST

I emerged to find the rubble was cleared and a priest was being 
forced to exorcise my grave. I kept clear and then hitched a lift 
with John B and the Weasel, who grabbed the drugs and returned to 
their farm hideout. All the criminals were there, both the drugs 
importers and buyers, and most of them stayed downstairs in the 
farm. They traded goods and money and then played cards and drank, 
until dawn when they could join the rush-hour traffic. I sabotaged 
the cars, distracted the lookout so he did not notice the police 
closing in, freed Sarah and stole the drugs with her help. Then, 
my work done, I faded away at dawn. 

The drugs importers were.. 
= John B: heavy bouncer, talks like a boxer. 
  He accompanied Weasel to collect the drugs, then was banished 
  upstairs to watch out for any sign of the police. 
= John Q: leader, east-end gangster, paying off the others.  
  He waited for the drugs, shared out the money and waited for 
  dawn, playing cards. 
= Weasel: diminuitive middle-aged ex-convict engineer. 
  He collected the drugs, locked up Sarah and played cards, with 
  occasional visits to check on her. 
= Jude: sloaney young smuggler. 
  She followed John Q, smiling when Sarah was imprisoned. 
 
The second group were the buyers, who were generally critical of 
the way things had gone wrong.. 
= Professor: upper class spiv. 
  He waited for drugs and accepted them in return for the money. 
= Severian: snake in a suit. 
  He guarded the drugs and followed the professor, looking mean.  

And on nobody's side.. 
= Sarah: streetwise natural actress (now basically a hostage). 
  She waited for drugs, then protested as she was imprisoned, 
  followed orders when rescued and helped hide the evidence. Her 
  aura warned of her attempts to make off with the drugs. 

* Graveyard. A priest was leaning over my grave, carrying out the 
ceremony of exorcism as two gang members, John B and the Weasel, 
looked on. I would have been sent to my rest had I not moved 
quickly out of the way. The gang had just finished clearing the 
rubble (disguised as workmen), but the Weasel was worried about 
the possibility that I was around and so had grabbed the priest 
and made him exorcise my grave. (Subsequently, if I was banished 
by light, for example, I could not return again). 

I waited nearby until they had finished and released the priest, 
who ran inside the Church. They then grabbed the drugs from the 
rubble, jumped into their van and left. (If I was left behind, 
I would have been left behind and unable to do anything until 
the game ended with dawn - soon afterwards.) I was now able to 
face a little light and got in the back of the van, sheltered a 
bit on the way by its shadow. Thus I reached the gang's hideout. 

* Introduction to Hideout. This was a primitive smallholding, 
where the van was hidden in a barn while its drivers went inside. 
The drugs were inspected, money changed hands and if I did nothing 
the gang eventually left - the Professor and Severian to distribute 
the drugs and the other to lie low. (They did not know that my 
efforts had put the police close on their track, but realised 
correctly that they had made enough mistakes to be tracked down 
eventually). 

Sarah got a shock - nobody saw any reason to keep to their 
agreement to cut her in on the deal. She became a hostage again 
and was killed when the gang left, if I did nothing. So when I 
manifested myself visibly, she was keen to follow orders. 

* Behind House. Initially, the house was too brightly lit for me 
to enter. So I touched the brass insecticide sprayer across the 
insulators here to shortcircuit the power. John Q emerged to 
start his emergency generator (in an echo location outhouse) and 
restore power, but it was at reduced voltage and the lighting 
was less bright. 

* Barn. In the front of the Barn was a pile of hay, which I 
searched to find a brass insecticide sprayer (to shortcircuit 
the house power). 

The Van was parked in the front of the Barn and a stolen Taxi was 
parked at the back. I could get into either vehicle, and it was 
possible to deflate their tyres to make them more difficult to 
drive. 

However, I discovered painfully that I could not enter the back 
of the Barn. Every attempt failed, and repeated failures weakened 
me greatly. As I came to realise, that was the site of my death. 
Thus, I never saw the parked Taxi, but learned about it from the 
conversation of the Professor, and I had to get Sarah to deflate 
its tyres. 

* Hall. This contained a walk-in cupboard suitable for hiding 
Sarah while she waited for people to be distracted away from the 
Kitchen. 

In there was a circuit breaker marked CEGB. Unless this was 
turned off, the lights came back on full power after a short 
while. 

* Kitchen. John B and The Weasel joined those sitting around the 
table. Sarah was not a hostage as I had supposed, but sitting 
free with the rest. At first there was celebration, a trading of 
drugs for money and the division of the money. Then John Q nodded 
to the Weasel, who grabbed Sarah. John Q thanked her for her help 
in betraying me, but said that he could never trust a turncoat. 
The police thought her a hostage, so this she would become. 

The Weasel then locked Sarah in the cellar and made occasional 
visits to check on her. And John B was sent to the attic to keep 
a watch for the police. The others sat around playing cards and 
passing round a whisky bottle, though the Professor refused any 
drink. They waited for dawn when they could leave under cover of 
the rush-hour traffic. And as the night wore on, Severian grew 
increasingly rude about the way the mistakes of the importers. 

I bent the van key in John Q's pocket (he interpreted this as an 
advance from Jude) to stop this being driven later. 

Severian placed the drugs briefcese behind his chair. It was too 
heavy for me to move, and Sarah would have been captured and 
struck unconscious had she been seen taking it, but John B's 
cries attracted everyone away and gave Sarah the opportunity to 
escape with the evidence. 

There was a small chance that Serverian thought he saw me and 
stared in my direction. If I did not leave immediately, he 
shouted to the others and I had to leave immediately or be 
doomed by their combined stares. This was one way of triggering 
them to leave. 

* Attic bedroom. The window overlooked the road from the nearby 
village towards the hideout, and John B was banished there as 
look-out. He took a flask of whisky along and so was not too 
efficient, but the police were closing in and he was bound to 
see something unless distracted. 

The program made it likely that I was there whenever there was 
disturbance in the village - and there was always some slight 
movement to warn me before anything became obvious to John's 
befuddled gaze. Failure to distract him meant that he noticed 
the police approaching and rushed downstairs to warn the gang, 
who left in a hurry (see later).

Distractions only worked once (trying one again only distracted 
the John B for one turn, while he came up with some logical 
excuse for it, so another could be tried) and were.. 
= loose stair which squeaked when pressed; 
= lamp bulb to unscrew and drop (broken glass was left); 
= curtains to blow about; 
= static charge on Weasel (he wandered about and cursed); 
= cool the room; 

John B got increasingly upset at these poltergeist-type events 
(even wandering briefly downstairs to complain, to general mirth, 
that the attic was haunted). 

When I manifested myself and became visible, the effect depended 
on John B's state. If he was calm, he simply shone his torch at me, 
and stared at me, with the result that I faded away. Subsequent 
poltergeist events were treated as a joke. If scared, he ran 
downstairs and revealed what was happening; the Weasel backed him 
up and the gang left. But if he was already terrified, he screamed 
and fired off the full magazine of his gun through me (picture); 
the gang treated this as an attack and rushed to the attic, doors 
and windows - leaving the drugs temporarily unguarded. 

If the police actually closed in, by the way, they did not appear 
in the game except as reports of loud-hailer shouting from an 
unseen helecopter. If the drugs were to hand, John B burnt them. 
And if Sarah was about, the gang used her as a hostage and tried 
to stage a break-out. She was killed. So I had to act just before 
the police did. 

* Cellar. After a brief while, Sarah was locked up here by Jude 
and the Weasel. The latter called in occasionally to check on her. 

Sarah was gagged and tied. I manifested myself and removed the 
gag, once she had calmed down, and cut her bonds with the broken 
glass. Then Sarah moved the chair to beside the door and stood on 
it to place a hammer on the shelf over the door, before returning 
to her previous position. (Note that I couldn't carry the key 
through the door when it was closed, so I brought them in on an 
earlier visit by the Weasel). 

The door was bolted from the outside, too firmly for me to open.  
The Weasel looked through its window to check Sarah was in place; 
then opened the door and entered. And I pushed the hammer on his 
head. (If I didn't, he went over to check on Sarah and then left, 
locking the door behind him. 

I got Sarah to gag and tie the Weasel (otherwise he would have 
shouted in warning) and lock the door. Later, I got Sarah to 
steal the briefcase with the drugs and carry them away from the 
house, when people were distracted by John B's shouts. 

* Endings. The game can finish in several ways. If I did nothing, 
for example, John B on lookout would spot the police far away and 
come rushing down with a warning. The Professor and Jude would 
then rush downstairs and lead Sarah from the cellar, leaving in 
the taxi with her as a hostage. The others would leave in their 
van. The gang would all escape, Sarah be subsequently killed 
(only if she lived could she cleared my name) and I would fade 
away - having succeeded in nothing. 

If Sarah was used as a hostage in this way, I could save her by 
manifesting myself and attacking the gang. I faded under the 
concentrated attention of the gangsters, while Sarah just kept on 
running and did not clear my name as she would otherwise have 
done. 

If the people left at their own pace, with ample warning of the 
police, they had time to inflate the tyres if I'd let out the air 
and to bend the van key straight. The taxi had no specific key; 
Severian hot-wired it to get it started. 

If the van key was bent, making this unuseable, its passengers 
tried to escape across coutry - again escaping unless the police 
were quite near. The state of the van tires had no great effect. 
If I got into the escaping van, the press of people robbed me of 
all strength and I could do nothing - eventually fading away. 

If in the escaping taxi, I could not help becoming visible and 
fought with John who was driving. Unless the tyres were deflated, 
he eventually won and I faded away. But if they were, the van 
tended to swerve about anyway and crashed in the fight. John and 
Jude escaped the flames, but the evidence was destroyed. 

Best was to let down the tyres, bend the key and distract John B 
until the police closed in, and meanwhile prepare to free Sarah. 
Then I paniced John, freed Sarah, collected the drugs and got her 
clear. Finally, I crashed the taxi.  



                       GENERAL DESIGN NOTES 
                       -------------------- 

GHOST POWERS

My powers gradually grew with time, the first evidence of this 
being the steadily heavier things that I could life in part one. 
They were as follows: 

1: Telekinesis. Carry light objects, one-at-a-time (all parts). 

2: Draughts. Blow down tower (part 1), Blow flames onto curtain 
   (part 2), scare John (part 3). 

3: Reach through Objects. (Very limited in part 1, reach through 
   things/walls in part 2, walk through walls in part 3. I could 
   never take objects through solids though). 

4: Temperature control. Cool/heat object. Eg freeze water, boil 
   whisky, scare John (parts 2 and 3). 

5: Static charge. Ignite vapour (part 2), Scare John (part 3). 

6: Astral sight. See auras of people and traces of past events 
   (especially part 2). Acts as lie detector and shows degree of 
   fear for example. 

7: Manifestation. Become visible and tangible to people (late p3). 
   I needed to manifest myself to give orders. If someone entered 
   or I visited an occupied room, I normally faded automatically. 



GHOST NOTES 

Joe explained the details of being a ghost as the game went along, 
so I always knew about future powers. He also dropped hints about 
why he was still about.. Apart from a few rumoured fear-feeders 
and soul-suckers, ghosts have no way of feeding - no way of 
recharging their energies. The way I was gaining in abilities and 
using my powers, he sighed, I would be lucky to finish even three 
nights. For himself, he wanted a few more good deeds under his 
belt before facing the sheep-goat test. 

If prayer works, then it presumably works negatively as well as 
positively - if the farmer gets the rain he prays for his crops, 
the rest of us get drenched. A lot of people believed me guilty 
of criminal stupidity, and their thoughts mattered. Clearing my 
name might give me a better eternity.  

The structure of the game follows that of the last few hours of 
my life. We all met in the graveyard to hide the drugs, then 
went to the gang's nearby hideout where I was betrayed. Gagged 
and tied, I was taken in the van to John Q's farm, imprisoned in 
the cellar and then killed in the barn - my body dumped beside 
the same corner where the taxi would crash three days later. It 
is important to bring out this parallelism in the game text. 

