                 SCAPEGHOST. COPYRIGHT (C) LEVEL 9
                 --------------------------------- 

                            PREFACE

Alan Chance wondered if this was what amnesia was like. He could 
remember nothing since driving to the meet with the drug gang that 
he and Sarah had infiltrated. Now he stood to attention on the end 
of the rank of police, staring forward as a priest read platitudes. 

"I wonder which poor sod got it this time", thought Alan, and peered 
sideways at the grave. 

When his colleagues filed away, ignoring him, Alan was still rooted 
to the spot. The name on the tombstone was his own. 


                         DESIGN OUTLINE 

I was one of two investigators, keeping track of a gang of drug 
dealers. Unfortunately, it seemed that I had given the game away; 
the gang realised what was going on, killed me and went to ground, 
holding my colleague, Sarah Pearson, as a hostage. When their plans 
came to fruition, they had promised to free her when they moved out, 
but it seemed unlikely that they would let such a witness live. 

Everyone blamed me for the debacle but, in fact, I was innocent. In 
the way of ghosts, I had remained on Earth in order to clear my name 
and right the wrong of my murder. I had three nights to develop my 
powers as a ghost, learn the plans of the gang, bring them to 
justice and free myself for the life to come. 

An isolated house, used by the criminals, was near the graveyard. 
However new ghosts have many limitations, not least being severely 
restricted in range from their graves, so I could not go directly 
there without first building up my powers on local problems. 

Scapegost thus combined frp-style character development, interaction 
with others (especially other ghosts), exploration and investigation, 
and the eventual need to affect the material world. 


                           COMPONENTS            

EXTRAS

Scapeghost did not need a background story, just an instruction 
manual (with an enlarged play example) and various bits and pieces:
* Map of the area. 
* Poster of cover picture. 
* Suitable small objects from the game. 


NIGHT 1: GRAVEYARD

New ghosts are invisible, have no special powers, and must remain 
very near their graves. Part 1 is entirely set in the Victorian 
graveyard and involved interaction with the other ghosts and local 
animals. I could not, as yet, affect the physical world. 

Occasional people walked by, ignorant of the spirits around them, 
but there was also a starving stray dog. Pets can see ghosts, and 
it was terrified, but I manage to calm it down and lead it though 
the actions necessary to get some food left in the workman's hut. 

The criminals had hidden their drugs cache in a vault in the 
cemetary so, after recruiting other ghosts to help, I collapsed the 
wall of the burnt church on top - delaying their illegal plans. 


NIGHT 2: HAUNTED HOUSE

By the next night, my powers had grown and I could roam abroad and 
reach the criminals' house. 

The gang had moved out hurridly, though the house was not empty, 
but guarded by a homicidal ghost. I found enough evidence to 
convict them, and also the location where they had moved, and 
arranged for everything to get to the police. 

I 'phoned their new address for a final check, and said nothing 
audible, but the person who answered guessed who it must be, "But 
you're dead!" 



NIGHT 3: POLTERGEIST

I energed to find a priest attempting to exorcise me, but I stopped 
his plans and went after the gang in their new retreat. 

With my full ghostly powers, I subdued the gang and prevented their 
escape until the police closed in. 

Then, my work done, I simply faded away. 

