

            AEON BACKGROUND. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
            -------------------------------------------- 

Just as actors need to work out more about their characters than 
just the words in the script, so I like to work out the wider 
background to a game. 

Even where the background does not show up directly in the game, it 
provides direction for future design decisions and hopefully helps 
make the game a coherent whole rather than arbitrary events. 

In this case, the backgroun 
to focus magic, or perhaps as a source of magic. In any case, the 
gems were greatly valued by magicians. Trolls, dwarves and similar 
humanoid miners rushed to the diggings and many became rich. 

As the mines grew ever deeper, in search of more gems, they joined 
and grew into a great underground city; at its peak the richest in 
the world and run by troll kings.  


THE COMING OF THE DRAGONS 

The news of this great wealth spread across the world, even to the 
bleak isle where nine dragons 
to focus magic, or perhaps as a source of magic. In any case, the 
gems were greatly valued by magicians. Trolls, dwarves and similar 
humanoid miners rushed to the diggings and many became rich. 

As the mines grew ever deeper, in search of more gems, they joined 
and grew into a great underground city; at its peak the richest in 
the world and run by troll kings.  


THE COMING OF THE DRAGONS 

The news of this great wealth spread across the world, even to the 
bleak isle where nine dragons lived. They attacked, conquered the 
mountain, piled up its treasure and drove away the inhabitants - 
save for its lords who it amused them to keep as slaves. 

Now the dragons had a problem. They may have captured great piles 
of gold, but they were also sitting on a mountain of boring little 
grey stones for which magicians would pay almost anything. And they 
had no way of getting at the gems. 

Furthermore, the mountain was a magnet for every adventurer in the 
area and, while the dragons could kill them easily enough, they got 
increasingly annoyed at the interruptions. 

So, the dragons did a deal with the trolls. They were freed and 
allowed to run the mountain as they wished, providing they defended 
the mountain and acted as overseers. Slaves were bought in to do 
the work. And the dragons, of course, got steadily richer. 

This system worked fairly well for a while, but is now decaying for 
much the same reasons as totalitarian regimes do everywhere: power 
is rigidly centralised and there are no incentives. Most of the 
outlying parts of the mountain has already been lost to anarchy; 
its elegant arches empty but for escaped slaves (and only the worst 
criminals were sold to the dragons) and degenerate animals. 


WORLD ECONOMICS 

The game is set pre-industrial revolution (or, perhaps industry 
just cannot get going if the people displaced by mechanisation 
are not poor weavers, but powerful alchemists and magicians). 


MOUNTAIN ECONOMICS 

The original mountain city was splendidly decorated. But the dragons 
do not appreciate architecture and nowadays there is little effort 
for any work except mining. 

The only export is magic gems, but major imports are more varied. 

Some food has to be imported to supplement that grown underground 
(fungi,roots,garbage worms,fish etc) and to provide occasional 
luxuries for the trolls. The dragons consume large numbers of live 
animals too. 

Life expectancy is low, so slaves and criminals are bought to keep 
up the number of workers. 

A certain amount of miscellaneous hardware is also needed. Tools, 
weapons, torches etc. 

But most of the gold earned from gem sales goes to the dragons. 


BIRD PEOPLE 

There are many sentient races in the world, but the only other of 
relevance to this game is the bird people. 

Their ability to fly gives them a great advantage in moving luxury 
goods, so the birds are great traders. They stick close together. 
They are generally honest. They are absolutely neutral. Needless 
to say, such qualities are not appreciated by those who lack them; 
such people say the birds' only interest is in buying cheap and 
selling for double.

The goods moved to and from the mountain are often high value gems 
or gold, too risky to transport by land. So it is not surprising 
that the birds dominated this trade too. The resulting arrangement 
has proved so beneficial to the dragons that they have allowed the 
birds to build roosts on the mountain. 

The birds maintain shops in their mountainside roosts, buying and 
selling almost anything, at a moments notice, and turning a blind 
eye to events underground. 

