

              AEON DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
              ---------------------------------------- 

                              OUTLINE 
                              -------

Aeon combines the fast action and simple joystick control of arcade 
games with the rich puzzles and scenery of fantasy adventures. 

DISPLAY: Aeon has two displays, for action and for possessions.
* Action display. Aeon has an aerial 3D view, similar to "Double 
  Dragon", with large sprites (hopefully 64 by 32) and detailed, 
  animated backgrounds. The keyboard, mouse or joystick move the 
  player about and two keys/mouse buttons use whatever is in his 
  left and right hand (with the joystick, press fire to use 
  whatever is in the current hand).  
* The possessions display shows all your belongings, and action 
  pauses until you return to the game. The joystick moves a 
  pointer about among them, and a window at the top left shows an 
  enlarged view of whichever object it points at. (Press space, 
  both mouse buttons or the fire button slowly to switch between 
  the two screens). 

PLOT SUMMARY. Climb the mountain to regain the head dragon's crown. 
The mountain has nine levels, each starting on a mountainside ledge 
with a shop run by a giant, neutral bird; continuing through many 
passages defended by trolls etc; and ending by confronting the 
dragon lord of the level. Defeat the nineth dragon to win. 

The map is partly fixed and partly random, with four alternative 
designs for each level, some random puzzles and a lot of random 
objects and monsters. This means that the game will be different 
each time - and people will want to play again even when they've 
completed it once.

Level themes are based around the four alchemical elements, as 
appropriate for the dragon in charge: 
9: Fire. Maze of Fire: Master Dragon's Realm. 
8: Air. Mist and Smoke. 
7: Water. Flooded Tunnels: Underwater Travel, Weed, Fish. 
6: Earth. Necropolis. 
5: Fire. Volcanic Crater, Fire Crevasses. 
4: Air. Ventillation, Wind Machinery, Flags.  
3: Water. Fish Lakes, Canals, Waterfalls. 
2: Earth. Underground Farms: Mushrooms, Animal Pens, Mines.   
1: Fire. Entrance Halls: Torches, Flame Jets. 

COMMUNICATION BY PICTURES. Aeon is an adventure entirely without 
words; graphic sequences replace all messages. 
* When an object is collected, or when an interesting static 
  object (scenery) is approached, a large picture of it will be 
  displayed for a few seconds. This picture will oft no attempt is made to distinguish between the 
objects of a type - e.g all potion bottles look alike. 

This does not matter because, when an object is picked up, or 
selected on the possessions screen, an enlarged picture is shown 
and this makes its its function clear. E.g a ring of sight has a 
gem like an eye, and a wand of lightning is shown with a jagged 
spark at the tip. 


OBJECT CLASS  TO ACTIVATE  NOTES

Axe           Hold & use   Weapon. Also best for cutting obstacles. 
Spear                    DETAILS 
                              -------

COMBAT 

To fight, hold a weapon and push the key/button for that hand. A 
long-range weapon (bow, wand etc) acts machine-gun fashion, but 
with only one missile in flight at once; a hand weapon (sword, 
spear etc) goes through an appropriate stabbing or slashing 
sequence; and a shield moves up/down to possibly block blows. 

Aeon is not like those platform games where a single injury is 
fatal; damage is subtracted from health instead, and death 
results when this reaches zero. Even walking unprotected across 
lava would take a few frames to kill you. 


TELEPORT SYSTEMS 

Rapid transport around a level is by teleport discs. Stand on one 
to vanish (with some appropriate special effect) and reappear on 
the corresponding destination disc. Step off and back onto this to 
return to the original place. 

Teleport discs are in pairs, at opposite ends of a room. Step on to 
the right one to teleport clockwise around the level, or the left 
one to go anticlockwise. To go around a level, enter a room on one 
teleport disc, walk across and leave from the other, then repeat. 

There will be no major obstacles separating pairs of discs. 

