

            AEON OBSTACLES. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
            ------------------------------------------- 

GENERAL NOTES 

The underlying system allows "free" use of 3D graphic effects and 
so there will be a great many solid objects - especially things 
like banisters and wrought-iron which are see-through and show off 
the 3D system to best effect. 

However, many obstacles will still be set in the floor or walls. 


USES OF OBSTACLES 

A major feature of Aeon is that objects interect wherever possible. 
It is not feasible to completely list such effects without the 
design becoming hopelessly unwieldy, but here are some examples. 

On fire levels, there will be gratings in the floor through which 
flames occasionally emerge. The idea is to work out the pattern 
involved and cross the gratings between bursts of fire, but if you 
leave things on the grating then the following might happen.. 
 Inflamable object (eg scroll, chest): burns, leaving any contents; 
 Fireball wand: recharged;  Food: cooked; Torch: lit; 
 Ice: melted, leaving any contents.

On water levels, rain drips down. It fills any bottle below, and 
can be used to water plants, or thrown as a weapon (if acid rain). 
Acid water corodes metal, destroying locks etc. 

ON GROUND 

Trigger tiles: put enough weight on one of these to open/close 
door, release monster, fire missile from side or roof, remove 
section of floor etc. 
 
Rivers of Water/Lava/Mud: cross when frozen or bridged. 

Canyons: cross when bridged. 

Gratings: emit jets of fire/wind in a pattern.  

Trapdoor: return you/monster to previous level. 

Areas of mist/grass/mud which you wade slowly through - feet 
invisible. They act to slow movement and hence pursuit, and hide 
things on the ground. 

Teleport discs (see elsewhere). 


ON WALL 

Triggers: press..

Doors of Rock/Ice/Fire which block access unless removed (e.g by 
trigger, or opposing magic). 
 
Waterfall/Fog which hides doorway.  

Bells to ring. Correct tune pacifies monster. 

Torches to light place; to take, move up to one. 

Doors to: open with key; choose correct one of; wedge shut by 
putting object on ground; remotely opened (eg from balcony or 
defensible place); 

Gargoyles/statues which come to life. 

Walls which hide doors (just walk through). 

Shiny walls which reflect magic back. 

Door which is really a mouth (and v.v). 

Level changes (e.g balconies) to be crossed by e.g beanstalk. 


PUZZLES CATEGORIES 

Aeon can be thought of as a dungeon construction set, linked to 
a random number generator, as it tries to ensure that the game 
is different every time it is played. One method used is to have 
room templates, which specify the category of a puzzle at any 
place, but not which one - for example that there is a bridge, 
but now whether it is a troll bridge, or one activated by a 
button, or one that breaks if you carry possessions across etc.. 
Categories of puzzle follow: 

Bridge. Troll bridge, button-activated, appearing/disappearing, 
weak, only there when npc crossing, 

Vertical Climb. Grow Beanstalk, trigger rising platform, 

Trigger. Press on/press off, keep pressed for on, 

Door triggers. Press, use same colour key, use trigger elsewhere, 
opens this door and closes others,  

Door knocker. Rings bell/buzzer/sounds knocking. Wakes statue(s), 
wakes picture, summons npc of chosen type, 









