        AEON DESIGN OUTLINE. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
        ------------------------------------------------ 

Aeon combines the fast action and simple joystick control of arcade 
games with the rich puzzles and scenery of fantasy adventures. 


DISPLAY & CONTROLS. Aeon has two displays, for action and for your 
possessions. Press space, both mouse buttons or fire slowly to 
switch between them: 

1. Action display. Aeon has an aerial 3D view, similar to "Double 
Dragon", with large sprites (64 by 32) and animated backgrounds.

The player can be moved about by: 
* keys (2 keys use what is in his left and right hands respectively). 
* mouse (mouse buttons " " " " " " " " " "). 
* joystick (fire button uses the object in the current hand). 

Walk over things to pick them up; walk into things to push them; 
press the button of a hand holding a weapon to fight; etc. 

2. The possessions display shows all your possessions, and action 
pauses until you return to the game. A pointer is moved about 
about among them, in the same way as the player is moved on the 
action screen, and a window at the top left shows an enlarged view 
of whichever object it points at. 

To hold an object, move the pointer over it and press a key or mouse 
button to hold it in the corresponding hand. (When using the joystick, 
press fire to hold the current object in the current hand - or move 
the pointer over a hand and press fire to change current hand). 

To give, eat or drop something held, move the pointer to the icons at 
the bottom of the screen and press a key, button or fire. 

Restart (on either display) invites you to save your position SAVE 
position. Confirm your decision (by selecting yes/no) if you want to 
start a new game. On starting, in place of choosing a new character 
you can choose to restore a previously SAVEd position. 


SUGGESTED START SEQUENCE: 
* Title screen with castle: dragon flies from right; breathes fire 
  on castle and dives into smoke; turns and flies right with 
  something glinting in its talons; castle burns. 
* Close-up of crown held by dragon. 
* Long shot of dragon flying into cave at top of mountain, hero 
  meanwhile shakes fist and runs to and enters a lower cave. 
* Selection screen. Use joystick etc to select between knight, 
  wizard, jester and restore box. 
* Game starts, with you controlling your chosen character. 


PLOT SUMMARY. Climb the mountain to regain the head dragon's crown. 
The mountain has nine levels, each starting on a city was splendidly decorated. But the dragons 
do not appreciate architecture and nowadays there is little effort 
for any work except mining. 

The only export is magic gems, but major imports are more varied. 

Some food has to be imported to supplement that grown underground 
(fungi,roots,garbage worms,fish etc) and to provide occasional 
luxuries for the trolls. The dragons consume large numbers of live 
animals too. 

Life expectancy is low, so slaves and criminals are bought to keep 
up  themes are based around the four alchemical elements, as 
appropriate for the dragon in charge: 
9: Fire. Maze of Fire: Master Dragon's Realm. 
8: Air. Mist and Smoke. 
7: Water. Flooded Tunnels: Underwater Travel, Weed, Fish. 
6: Earth. Necropolis. 
5: Fire. Volcanic Crater, Fire Crevasses. 
4: Air. Ventillation, Wind Machinery, Flags.  
3: Water. Fish Lakes, Canals, Waterfalls. 
2: Earth. Underground Farms: Mushrooms, Animal Pens, Mines.   
1: Fire. Entrance Halls: Torches, Flame Jets. 

The player rises in experience level and gains magic items and 
armour/weapons to complete the game. Excess items can be sold, and 
required ones bought, at the shops owned by the bird people.


OBSTACLES. Creatures include humanoids, birds, dragons, and other 
suitable cave inhabitants. Most monsters will look left or right 
and will mainly approach horizontally. "Racetracks" will be used so 
monsters can move purposefully, though some will be random to avoid 
too much regularity. They will become harder to defeat, and will use 
more magic, as the mountain is ascended. Magic items and better 
armour/weapons will be available to assist the player.

There will also be large, fixed 'guardians' which will be partly 
animated. e.g. for a dragon, only the head might move. Physical 
obstacles, such as crevices, trapdoors and lava pools will restrict 
the motion of the player and monsters. And there will also be 
adventure-type puzzles, which will be kept simple at first as some 
players may never have played a real adventure game. 


COMMUNICATION BY PICTURES. Aeon is an adventure entirely without 
words. Graphic sequences replace all messages. For example:

* When an object is collected, or when an interesting static 
  object (scenery) is approached, a large picture of it will be 
  displayed for a few seconds. This picture will often be labelled 
  graphically. For example, a potion of strength might have a 
  picture of a muscled arm, a fire resistance potion might have a 
  flame crossed out. Tunes/sound effects and animation may be also 
  be useful to emphasise the point.

* Suppose a creature wants something - for example a troll demanding 
  payment for crossing a troll bridge. A thought bubble will appear 
  above the troll when the player approaches - in cartoon fashion - 
  showing what is required.


EXAMPLE PUZZLES: 

* A beanstalk which must be watered. When it has grown sufficiently, 
  the player can climb it to gain access to an exit high up in the 
  wall. A thou spider will awake. The spider (which was previously 
  just a black, hairy shape at the top of the screen) will open its 
  eyes, twitch its legs, and the screen will fade to black...

* Buttons/levers which open doors, pits in the floors etc. For 
  example, several exits might be opened, allowing monsters to 
  escape. Opening the appropriate pit in the floor would dispose of 
  them neatly.

* Some rooms will contain balconies or ledges. This gives the 
  potential for the player to sneak up a spider will awake. The spider (which was previously 
  just a black, hairy shape at the top of the screen) will open its 
  eyes, twitch its legs, and the screen will fade to black...

* Buttons/levers which open doors, pits in the floors etc. For 
  example, several exits might be opened, allowing monsters to 
  escape. Opening the appropriate pit in the floor would dispose of 
  them neatly.

* Some rooms will contain balconies or ledges. This gives the 
  potential for the player to sneak up above a guardian, and push a 
  pile of rocks down on top of them.

* Similarly, there might be a sniper on a balcony. Any attempt to 
  cross the room they're defending would result in a hail of arrows. 
  Find another route to the balcony first to scare off the sniper.

* When escaping from a lair, by means of a rope bridge, the 
  bridge could be cut to prevent pursuit.

* A statue with a missing eye. When it is approached, a close-up 
  is shown of the head. A gem-shaped eye is clearly missing. If the 
  player approaches with the gem in hand, and uses it, the statue 
  changes shape and releases the sword that it clasps.

* A phoenix egg could be found in a firey area. If this is placed 
  in a suitable nearby nest, the phoenix is reborn in a blaze of 
  fire. A suitable reward would be given to the player.


SAVE/RESTORE. Selecting RESTART on the possessions screen gives 
you have the option to quit and save your position. 

If you do so, the hero is shown returning to the shop at the start 
of the current level. All his 'ordinary' possessions are sold (a 
shopkeeper wheels on a barrow-load of money & exchanges it for 
the hero's goods). Only special items are recorded in the save 
code, but others may be repurchased when the game is next played.
