









Tony Rainbird                                             27/11/88 
Inter-Mediates Ltd 
2 South Block 
The Maltings 
Riverside Way 
Sawbridgeworth 
Herts CM21 9PG 

Dear Sir, 

         With regret, I write to give notice that Level 9 no longer 
need Inter-Mediates to act as a PR agency for us. The arrangement 
will presumably continue to the end of this year - but no longer. 

* I am not confident that Inter-Mediates, and Maeve Kane in 
  particular, have the in-depth experience necessary to provide 
  top-grade copy and act as a back-stop against mistakes. 

  I have in mind, amongst other things, the slowness and the 
  nature of comments on the Ingrid poster, whose copy I sent in 
  the weekend before last. And the content of Maeve's proposed 
  Scapeghost release. 

* I am unsure of Inter-Mediates' expertise in computer marketing. 
  It was only at our third meeting - at all of which marketing 
  schedules were discussed - that I recall selling to the trade 
  being mentioned. And then I was the one to raise the issue. 

  And IM's address list was scarcely bigger than the list of 
  Level 9's which I passed on prior to upgrading it with PC show 
  contacts. (By the way, I think Newsfield moved early this year.) 

* Many of the aspects of marketing - e.g taking screen shots and 
  sending out samples - can genuinely be done more efficiently 
  from here. Using IM for these would lead to double handling. 

  I suspect that this issue is exacerbated by the fact that L9 
  produce a great many products (about 1 per week), each with a 
  niche market of one machine. 

* It seems that Inter-Mediates is not an advertising agency, as I 
  had come to believe. 

* Inter-Mediates cuttings service hiccupped perhaps 6 weeks ago. 
  Reviews are very important to me and, since then, we have had 
  to go back to the old system of scanning the WHS shelves once a 
  week. I fact, L9 have got to every mention first, about a week 
  before it arrived from IM. 

I suspect that most of the specific problems could be resolved, 
but not the issue of my confidence in IM's experience. So I would 
always be tending to duplicate any work myself. In the circumstances 
therefore, it is better to part. 

I wish you better luck with your other clients. 