









        ENTRY FOR BRITISH PERSONAL COMPUTER AWARDS 1988
        ----------------------------------------------- 

1. Level 9's entry is "Lancelot", an adventure game published in 
   collaboration with Mandarin. 

2. I would like the game considered for "Game of the Year" and the 
   triple-format system used for the Amstrad CPC/PCW/Spectrum+3 
   version considered for the "PCW Editor's Award". 

3. See below. 

4. Lancelot is for games players in their teens and upwards. 

5. Lancelot costs 19.95 pounds for 16-bit computers, all disc: 
   Atari ST, Amiga, IBM PC/compatibles, and Macintosh. 

   Lancelot costs 14.95 pounds for 8-bit computers.. Disc: Apple II,  
   Amstrad CPC/PCW/Spectrum+3, Atari XL/XE, BBC Master/B+/expanded B, 
   CBM 64. Tape: Amstrad CPC, Atari XL/XE, CBM 64, MSX and Spectrum. 

6. See below. I'm afraid I've mixed together the text for "3" and "6", 
   but please consider the description of "triple-format discs" as 
   coming in this category. 

7. Photograph and logo enclosed. 


LANCELOT
--------

    "Lancelot" is a big graphical adventure, with up to 250K of text. 
It is based faithfully on the Arthurian legends in Malory's "Morte 
D'Arthur", retold in the accompanying booklet. 

Thus you do not Merlin throwing fireballs, or Lancelot earning points 
by depopulating the countryside, or heavy metal orcs for that matter. 

What you do get is language with the flavour of the original, events 
from the book, and a mix of traditional adventure puzzles and those 
concerned with the ethics of chivalry. 

    "Lancelot" uses Level 9's adventure system, which is the most 
sophisticated around. We match the others as regards parser and 
pictures, are ahead where where compression is concerned and, for 
example, Magnetic Scrolls and Infocom have none of the following:   

1) Availability on 16 formats. 

2) Comprehensive free cluesheet with 1000 entries (in my opinion, 
   this level of help is vital for big adventures). 

3) RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO on most versions. UNDO is possibly our 
   single most useful feature. It takes you back to before your last 
   move, correcting any mistake without the need for SAVE. 

4) wide range of goal-directed commands: go to, run to, find, follow, 
   wait for etc. These remove much of the slog of adventuring. E.g 
   "FIND MERLIN" finds the best route to Merlin and walks you there, 
   replacing lots of little commands. 

5) true multi-character features. Obedient people can be commanded 
   to do anything that the player can (e.g Galahad, go to well, fill 
   chalice and cup, find me and give everything to me). 

   These save time, as other people can go off to complete minor 
   puzzles, while you simultaneously tackle something more demanding. 

   And they allow a unique range of "multi-player" puzzles. For 
   example, to free Turquin's prisoners quickly, Lancelot commands 
   someone to wind him down in a cage, wait for a signal and wind 
   the cage back up. Then, once down in the prison, Lancelot tells 
   the first escapees to help free the rest. 


TRIPLE-FORMAT DISCS (AS USED FOR LANCELOT)
------------------------------------------

    The increasing variety of home micros, and the tendency of 
publishers to bring out many individual versions of each game for 
them, poses problems for retailers and players alike. 

Basically, it is difficult for any shop to stock all the machine 
versions of even the more popular games. 

Fortunately, there is a solution.. multi-format games which run on 
more than one micro (e.g by recording a Spectrum game on side A of 
a tape and a Commodore 64 version on side B). 

    Level 9 currently hold the record, with three incompatible 
formats on one disc. Our 3" discs work on all three main UK formats: 
Amstrad CPC, Amstrad PCW and Spectrum +3 (all with pictures). 

Triple-format discs are quite a step forward; firstly, because nobody 
else has got beyond dual-format, and secondly because of the way 
it has been done.. 

    Traditional dual-format discs, whether flippies or otherwise, 
have in effect one version of the game on side A and the other on B. 
This is obviously wasteful of space, as both copies of the game have 
to fit on one disc. 

    Level 9's triple-format discs are different, with just one copy 
of the game, filling most of the disc. There is a small amount of 
machine-specific code to handle things which differ, like disc 
access and picture display. 

Producing a multi-format di

Join Arthur's knights in "Lancelot", from Level 9 and Mandarin

    "Lancelot" is a blockbuster graphical adventure, based faithfully 
on the Arthurian legends in Malory's "Morte D'Arthur", retold in the 
accompanying book. 

You will be relieved to know that the game does not have Merlin 
throwing fireballs, or Lancelo