

Join Arthur's knights in "Lancelot", from Level 9 and Mandarin

    "Lancelot" is a blockbuster graphical adventure, based faithfully 
on the Arthurian legends in Malory's "Morte D'Arthur", retold in the 
accompanying book. 

You will be relieved to know that the game does not have Merlin 
throwing fireballs, or Lancelot earning points by depopulating the 
countryside, or heavy metal orcs for that matter. 

    Pete Austin has put months of research into the design of a game 
whose language retains the flavour of the original stories, where 
people and events come straight from the legends, and which has a 
mix of traditional adventure puzzles and those concerned with chivalry. 

You play the role of Lancelot: his knighting by Arthur; the valient 
quests which earned him the title of "Best Knight in the Land"; his 
doomed affairs with Elaine and Guenever, and his success in the quest 
for the Holy Grail. 

    "Lancelot" uses Level 9's adventure system, which is the most 
sophisticated around. We match the others as regards parser and 
pictures (which are here hand-drawn for the first time), are ahead 
where where compression is concerned and, for example, our major 
competitors have none of the following:   

* up to 60,000 words of text. 

* 16 UK formats. 

* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO on most versions. UNDO is possibly our 
  single most useful feature. It takes you back to before your last 
  move, correcting any mistake without the need for SAVE. 

* wide range of goal-directed commands: go to, run to, find, follow, 
  wait for etc. These remove much of the slog of adventuring. E.g 
  "FIND MERLIN" finds the best route to Merlin and walks you there, 
  replacing lots of little commands. 

* true multi-character features. Obedient people can be commanded 
  to do anything that the player can (e.g Galahad, go to well, fill 
  chalice and cup, find me and give everything to me). 

  These save time, as other people can go off to complete minor 
  puzzles, while you simultaneously tackle something more demanding. 

  The features permit more realistic people in the game and allow a 
  unique range of "multi-player" puzzles which require co-operation 
  to solve. For example, to free Sir Turquin's prisoners quickly, 
  Lancelot commands someone to wind him down in a cage, wait for a 
  signal and wind the cage back up. Then, once down in the prison, 
  Lancelot gets the first escapees to help free the rest. 

Lancelot will be released during the first week of September, price 
19.95 (16-bit) and 14.95 (8-bit). 

It will be available for Amstrad/IBM PC, ST, Amiga, Apple Mac, 
Amstrad CPC/PCW/Spectrum+3, Apple II, Atari XL/XE, Commodore 64, 
MSX, Spectrum and BBC. 
