LANCELOT INSTRUCTIONS. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9
------------------------------------------------- 

Lancelot
-------- 

Contents
--------

Getting started .................................................. ? 
Preface .......................................................... ? 
Talking to Lancelot .............................................. ? 
Hints ............................................................ ?
Official Secrets ................................................. ? 
Loading Instructions ............................................. ? 
Background ....................................................... ?
King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table ................... ? 

CREDITS
-------

Concept and game design: Pete Austin.
Game program: Mike Austin. 
Story and final game text: Christina Erskine. 
Remainder of this booklet: Pete Austin. 
Pictures: Joan Lamb, Neil Scrimgeour, Dicken Peeke. 
Systems: Mike and Nick Austin, John Jones-Steele, Mike Bryant. 
Transport to your Micro: Nick Austin and Mike Bryant. 



Getting started
---------------

    If you have not played a Level 9 adventure before, please read 
all these instructions. If you are an experienced Level 9 adventurer, 
skip to the preface and just read that. 

Boot the disc or load the first cassette to start the game. If you 
don't know how to do this, see the loading instructions on Page ??. 

When the game prints "What now?" or ">", it is waiting for you to 
type a command. (The game also waits when it has more text to print 
than will fit on the screen at one time; read what's displayed and 
press either SHIFT or SPACE to continue).

This game knows four types of commands: 

* Movement: just type the direction you want to go: NORTH, NORTHEAST, 
  EAST (and the other compass directions), IN, OUT, UP, DOWN or 
  ACROSS. GO or RUN take you to a named place, e.g GO TO CATHEDRAL, 
  and FOLLOW is self-explanatory. 

* Actions: e.g LOOK, TAKE THE HARP, DROP IT, EXAMINE THE CROSS, WEAR 
  THE HAT, DRINK THE WINE, or GIVE CLOTH TO SIR MELIOT. 

* System commands. EXITS, INVENTORY and SCORE give information; 
  WORDS, PICTURES, BRIEF, VERBOSE, EXITS ON and EXITS OFF control 
  what is output; UNDO; SAVE, RESTORE, RAM SAVE and RAM RESTORE save 
  your position or return to an earlier position, and QUIT stops the 
  game. See the example game, below, for more details. 

* Commands to others. Lancelot could command some people, such as 
  knights who were grateful to him for their freedom. Type their 
  name, followed by commands, e.g SIR GAWAIN, GO NORTH, TAKE 
  EVERYTHING, THEN FOLLOW ME.            

You can abbreviate commands, e.g SOUTH to S and SOUTHEAST to SE, and 
even type several commands on one line, e.g EAST, TAKE ALL, WEST. 
After typing a command (or commands), press the ENTER or RETURN key. 


Preface
-------

"Lancelot" recreates the tales of Arthur and the Knights of the 
Round Table, as told in Sir Thomas Malory's "Le Morte D'Arthur". 
                                                                    |
Parts 1 and 2 follow Lancelot's arrival at Camelot, his rise to 
become the best knight in the world, and the completion of the Round 
Table. 

Part 3 then follows the Quest for the Holy Grail, the high point for 
Chivalry, in which the best knights came near to God, but which led 
to the destruction of the Round Table. 

Hints for part 1, "Camelot":
* Lancelot must go to Camelot, to be knighted by Arthur. 
* Next, he becomes the best knight by valorous deads in Logris. 
* Finally, on his return, Lancelot must look to Guenever. 

Hints for part 2, "Logris":
* Despite the Damosel Maledisant's manner, her quest is genuine. 
* You score points mainly for freeing all the captive knights, and  
  Lancelot can command them. 
* Ensure Galahad can come to Camelot. 

Hints for part 3, "The Quest for the Holy Grail":
* Remember that virtue is what is important, so avoid sins. 
* Galahad is the holiest knight. 

If you are really stuck, you can get a comprehensive free cluesheet, 
with hundreds of hints, from Official Secrets (see Page ??), or 
direct from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, Avon BS24 9UR 
England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the packaging and 
provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope (UK users), or 
four International reply coupons (overseas users). 


Talking to the game
-------------------

As you have seen, this game understands a lot of commands. The 
following list is only part of its vocabulary, but it gives an idea 
of what to try: 
              
North, northeast, east (and other compass directions), up, down, in, 
out, across, climb, go, run, follow, again, attack, inventory, quit, 
save, restore, RAM save, RAM restore, undo, score, wait, shout, 
search, examine, blink, look, kneel, take, drop, wear, throw, give, 
fill, empty, open, unlock, close, eat, drink, light, press, wave, 
blow, exits, words, pictures, brief, verbose. 
 
Many words can be abbreviated, e.g "INVENTORY" to "INV". 
       
The following example is not from the game but it illustrates 
how to play. The player's commands are in capitals, after each ">" 
prompt, and any text in square brackets is a comment... 


  Lancelot woke suddenly. He had been dreaming of Guenever, and 
thought for a moment that it was she who had kissed him. 

> LOOK 
Lancelot was lying beside a fountain, in a glade of the Forest 
Sauvage. He could see a fair damosel. 

The fair damosel took a step backwards and stood, peering timidly 
at Lancelot. 

> EXAMINE DAMOSEL 
She was Elaine, called at that time the Fair Maid of Astalot, 
daughter to Sir Bernard of Astolat, in whose castle Lancelot had 
recently tarried. She was holding a red sleeve. 

Elaine cast a look of love unto Sir Lancelot and besought him to 
wear a token of hers at the jousts. 

> GO NORTH 
ELaine clutched at the bridle of Lancelot's horse and would not let 
him ride past. "Prithee, my Lord", she said, "Will you wear my 
token? Just tell me yeah or nay".                                   |

> ELAINE, YES 
Elaine cast a look of love unto Sir Lancelot and twined the sleeve 
about his arm. Then she walked away into the forest, ever looking 
back at Lancelot until she was out of sight. 

> NORTH 
Sir Lancelot rode north and was on the edge of a great thorn thicket; 
the biggest that man had ever seen. He bethought himself to see a 
treasure glinting within the thicket. 

> IN 
Sir Lancelot dismounted and walked in. He was trapped by the thorns, 
completely unable to move. 

> UNDO  ["Take back move" - available on most micros.]
Lancelot was on the edge of a great thorn thicket; the biggest that 
man had ever seen. 

> INVENTORY
Lancelot was wearing a red sleeve. 

Sir Lavaine entered from the south. 

> EXITS 
Exits lead east, south and in. 

Sir Lavaine stopped in front of Lancelot. "Good sir knight", said 
the youth, "Pray let me ride with you unto the tournament, for 
methinks I am of my age strong and wight. I see you wear my sister's 
sleeve and I would help her chosen champion."

> LAVAINE, FOLLOW ME
Sir Lavaine bowed. 

> BRIEF, WORDS, EXITS ON
OK. OK. OK.  [Locations will be described briefly, pictures turned 
off and exits reported automatically in future. To reverse these 
choices, you could use VERBOSE, PICTURES and EXITS OFF.]

> E  [i.e "EAST"]
Sir Lancelot rode east and was on a forest road. Exits led east and 
west. Lancelot could see a little gate across the track. 

Sir Lavaine entered from the east. 

> A  [i.e "AGAIN", repeat previous command]
Lancelot pushed the gate halfway open. Sir Lavaine looked on with 
interest. Then the gate sprung closed, blocking the road. 

> LAVAINE, WAIT THEN PUSH THE GATE  ["wait" defaults to "wait 1"]
Sir Lavaine nodded. 

> PUSH THE GATE. 
Lancelot pushed the gate halfway open. Sir Lavaine pushed the gate 
the rest of the way open and it clicked in place. 

> EAST
Sir Lancelot rode through the open gate and was at a junction in the 
road, where a winding track joined it from the north. Exits led 
north, east and west. Lancelot could see a signpost. 

Sir Lavaine entered from the west. 

> READ SIGNPOST 
"Thou knight, which would enter into the Tower Perilous, beware thou 
be well prepared. For the fiendly dragon therein is proof against 
all weapons, save only one."

A great roaring was heard in the distance. 

Sir Lavaine looked as if he had just remembered something. "Ye must 
hold me excused at this time", he said, "For I have duties elsewhere. 
But if God give me speed, I shall meet with you again at the jousts". 
Spurring his horse, he galloped into the distance. 

> SCORE
Lancelot scored 10 out of 1000. 

> RAM SAVE 
OK.  [Before facing the dragon, save the position in RAM - i.e in 
the computer's memory - in case you encounter difficulties and want 
to return to this point, using RAM RESTORE. To save to disc or tape, 
use SAVE and RESTORE.] 

> GO TO TOWER PERILOUS [letting the computer work out the route. 
Press any key to cancel this type of "high level" command.]

Sir Lancelot rode north and was deep in the forest. 

Sir Lancelot rode northeast and was on the edge of a clearing. 

Sir Lancelot rode north and was before the Tower Perilous. Exits led 
south and inside. Lancelot could see plumes of smoke curling from 
its windows. A fierce bellowing echoed from inside the tower. 

> EXAMINE EVERYTHING 
The sleeve was of scarlet cloth, well embroidered with great pearls. 
The bellowing grew louder. 

The plumes of smoke were flecked with glowing ash.
Lancelot heard movement within the tower. 

> WAIT FOR DRAGON  [do nothing until the dragon arrives]
Lancelot saw two great eyes within the tower. 

A great gout of flame gushed from the doorway, 

A hideous dragon entered from the north. It reared high above 
Lancelot, opening its mouth like a chasm. 

> MAKE SIGN OF THE CROSS
A good idea but, alas, the dragon was no fiend and could not be    |
banished.                                                          |
The dragon's breath scorched Lancelot's face.                      |

> KILL SERPENT [i.e "strike it repeatedly"] 
Lancelot's blow barely scratched the dragon's scales. 
The dragon prepared itself for a deadly strike.                    |

Lancelot redoubled his efforts and slightly wounded the dragon. 
The dragon's fire belched forth again, and Lancelot felt himself 
nigh unto death. 

[This is rather one-sided, so a key is pressed to stop the command]
Did Lancelot want to continue? NO

> RAM RESTORE [return to position saved earlier] 
Lancelot was at a junction in the road, where a winding track joined 
it from the north. Exits led north, east and west. Lancelot could 
see a signpost. 

> EXITS OFF  [stop reporting exits]
OK. A great roaring was heard in the distance. 

> E                                                                 |
Lancelot rode east and came to the edge of a great river. Lancelot  |
could see a small boat. This fragile craft bobbed high in the water,|
rocked by every wave, its awning of white samite fluttering in the  |
breeze.                                                             |
                                                                    |
> GET INTO BOAT                                                     |
Lancelot seated himself in the boat.                                |
                                                                    |
> E  [to move boats, just enter the normal compass directions].     |
The boat sailed east and was at the far side of the river. Lancelot |
could hear the sound of distant cheering, carried on the Summer air.|
                                                                    |
> RUN TO TOURNAMENT [like "go to", but without describing the moves]|
Lancelot climbed out of the boat.                                   |
                                                                    |
[a little time passes..]                                            |
                                                                    |
Lancelot was on the tournament field, surrounded by milling crowds. 
He could see Sir Lavaine, a priest and a great altar. 

"Hail, best of knights", said Sir Lavaine, "I have long awaited     |
you."                                                               |

> EXAMINE ALTAR
It was a massive block of granite, carved with all manner of signs 
of the cross. A sword was sticking through the altar. 

The priest noticed Lancelot's interest. "Wit ye well", he said, 
"that the haft and pommel of this sword are made of the bones of 
divers beasts; and its virtue is that he handleth it shall never 
be weary or hurt. But it belongs only to he that shall win the 
tournament".

[Perhaps the sword was needed needed to defeat the dragon, or       |
perhaps it would protect Lancelot while he lured the beast to       |
the thorns, so its firy breath would burn them. In either case,     |
Lancelot must first prove victorious in the tournament... ]


Hints 
----- 

1. Draw a map (or a series of maps). Remember that the EXITS ON 
   command lists all the paths from each location. 

2. To make life easy for you, the objects that matter in a location 
   are normally listed in a sentence like, "You can see a shopkeeper 
   and a bunch of herbs". (Some other authors mix in useful objects 
   amidst the background scenery, but Lancelot avoids this). The 
   rest of your surroundings are probably scenery, but by all means 
   try to do things to them if you like. 

3. Examine all the objects that you see and, as a rule, take 
   everything that you can. Most objects are useful in some way. 

4. Use the "high level" commands, such as GO TO TOWER, RUN TO 
   ARTHUR, FOLLOW DRAGON, WAIT 5, WAIT FOR ELAINE and KILL DRAGON, 
   which take the place of many individual instructions. Remember 
   that pressing a key "breaks" out of such commands. 

5. Some puzzles can only be solved with cooperation from other 
   people (especially in later parts of the game), so get used to 
   giving orders. You can cancel orders given in error by e.g, 
   DAMOSEL, STOP

6. Get used to using "UNDO". If you make a mistake and get "killed" 
   or lose a vital object, the UNDO command is available on most 
   micros and takes you back in time - to before your previous move. 
   On larger micros, you can use UNDO many times in succession to 
   retrace your steps a long way through the game. 

7. SAVE your place occasionally, so that if you notice a mistake too 
   late to be able to UNDO it, or if the electricity flickers and your 
   computer crashes, you can RESTORE the saved position and continue 
   from there. SAVE puts your position on tape or disc (see the 
   details instructions) and RESTORE can retrieve it later. RAM SAVE 
   is quicker but less secure, as it saves the position in memory. 

8. Try everything you can think of - even weird or dangerous actions 
   sometimes provide clues, and might be fun. You can use UNDO (or 
   RESTORE if you have previously used SAVE) to recover if the 
   results are "fatal".  

9. You can word a command in many different ways. For example, if there 
   were an axe and a ball on the ground, you could take the axe by 
   typing any of the following:
   > GET THE AXE 
   > TAKE AXE 
   > GET ALL BUT THE BALL 
   > LOOK AT THE AXE AND TAKE IT
   If the game doesn't understand your command, try rephrasing it 
   and using synonyms. If the game still doesn't understand, you 
   are probably trying something that is not important in the game. 

10.If you are really stuck, you can get a free hint sheet, with 
   hundreds of clues, from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-Mare, 
   Avon BS24 9UR, England. You must enclose the "clue card" from the 
   packaging and provide a large, stamped, self-addressed envelope 
   (UK users), or four International reply coupons (overseas users). 



[Official Secrets advert goes here] 
-----------------------------------



Loading instructions for Lancelot
---------------------------------

This section tells you how to run "Lancelot" on your computer, and 
lists the specific features of each version. Should you experience 
any loading problems, return the cassettes or disc, without the 
packaging, to Mandarin Software at Europa House, Adlington Park, 
Adlington, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 4NP. 


Disc loading instructions
-------------------------  

Look down the alphabetical list of computer types and follow the 
instructions for your computer. The underlined text is what you type, 
and remember to press the ENTER or RETURN key after each command. 

Amiga 500          Insert the game disc and turn on your Amiga. 
Amiga 1000/2000    Insert your Kickstart disc and turn on your Amiga. 
                   When it asks for Workbench, insert the game disc. 
Amstrad CPC 6128   Turn on your CPC (6128 or 464/664 expanded to 
                   128K) and insert the game disc. Enter RUN"MENU"
Amstrad PCW        Insert your usual CP/M+ disc and turn on your PCW. 
                   Insert the game disc and enter MENU
Apple II           Insert the game disc and turn on your Apple II. 
Atari ST           Insert the game disc and turn on your ST. 
Atari XE or 800XL  Remove any cartridges. Insert the game disc. While 
                   holding down OPTION for at least 5 seconds, turn 
                   the Atari on. If nothing happens, turn off the 
                   Atari for 30 seconds and try again. 
BBC master or 48K+ Turn on your BBC micro, insert the game disc and 
                   press SHIFT and BREAK together. If this doesn't 
                   work, press CONTROL SHIFT D and BREAK together. 
CBM 64 or 128 disc Turn on your Commodore (while holding down the 
                   Commodore key, if you have a 128). Insert the game 
                   disc and enter LOAD"*",8,1
IBM PC and clones  Insert the normal operating system disc and turn 
                   on your IBM PC. Replace it with the game disc, and 
                   enter MENU
Mac,Mac+           Insert the normal operating system disc and turn on 
                   your Mac. Insert the game disc and double click on 
                   the MENU icon.
Spectrum +3        Turn on the Spectrum, insert the game disc and 
                   press ENTER. 


Tape loading instructions
-------------------------  
Put one of the game tapes in your recorder, look down the alphabetical 
list of computer types and follow the instructions for your computer. 
The underlined text is what you type, and remember to press the ENTER 
or RETURN key after each command. 

If the tape doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again.

Amstrad CPC tape   Turn on your CPC. If it has a disc drive, enter 
                   |TAPE 
                   Type RUN"" start the tape on play and press SPACE. 
Atari XE,800XL     Remove any cartridges. While holding down START and 
                   OPTION for at least 5 seconds, turn on the Atari. 
                   Start the tape on play and press RETURN.  If nothing 
                   happens, turn off the Atari for 30 seconds and try 
                   again. 
CBM 64 or 128 disc Turn on your Commodore (while holding down the 
                   Commodore key if you have a 128). Press SHIFT and 
                   RUN/STOP together and start the tape. 
MSX 64K            Turn on your MSX, enter RUN"CAS:" and play the tape. 
Spectrum 48K       Turn on the Spectrum, type LOAD"" and play the tape.
Spectrum 128/+2    Turn on the Spectrum, press ENTER and play the tape. 


Save on disc
------------ 
To save game positions from the disc version of Lancelot, you 
first need a blank disc of your own. 

Before playing Lancelot, format (initialize) this disc, using 
the ordinary software bought with your micro. (Exceptions to this 
are Apple II and Atari XE,800XL discs - Lancelot uses its own disc 
format on these computers and will initialize the disc itself.) 

When playing the game, enter SAVE and follow the instructions 
displayed. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, and follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. When entering a file 
name, you can either type a short word such as POS1, or use the full 
format permitted by your particular computer. 


Save on tape
------------ 
To save game positions from a cassette version of Lancelot, you 
need a blank cassette of your own. 

When playing the game, start a blank tape on RECORD and enter SAVE 
(if the cassette doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again). When the 
game starts running again, e.g to prompt for your next command by 
displaying ">" or "What now?", stop the tape. 

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES, then follow any 
instructions asking for one word from the story. Finally, rewind the 
tape on which the position was saved, and play it (if the cassette 
doesn't move, press ENTER or RETURN again).


Save in memory
-------------- 
To save your game position in memory (all but 48K Spectrums, 64K 
Amstrad CPCs and small BBCs allow this), enter RAM SAVE

To return to a SAVEd position, enter RAM RESTORE 

Remember that saving in memory is very quick and convenient - it is 
an ideal way of saving your position before trying something risky - 
but a RAM SAVEd position will be lost if your computer is turned off 
or crashes, so SAVE to disc or tape occasionally. 

Note also that the UNDO command is available on all versions which 
have RAM SAVE. UNDO takes you "back in time" to before Lancelot last 
moved: it's a bit like RAM RESTORE where the corresponding RAM SAVEs 
are automatic, and that UNDO can be used many times in succession on 
larger micros. 


                      Additional features
                      ------------------- 
The versions of Level 9 adventures on large micros often have more 
facilities than those on smaller machines. Here is a summary of the 
features available with Lancelot...

AMIGA FEATURES 
-------------- 
* colour pictures (use the mouse, with its left button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  BACK SPACE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* README file. For more information, boot the Amiga with Workbench, 
  then insert the game disc and double click on its icon and README.TXT 

AMSTRAD CPC DISC FEATURES
------------------------- 
* colour pictures (use F8 and F2 to slide the picture up and down). 
  To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is 
  waiting for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* the Amstrad CPC disc also works on Amstrad PCW and Spectrum +3; 
* README file. For more information, turn on the CPC, insert the game 
  disc and enter LOAD"README" and LIST
  
AMSTRAD PCW DISC FEATURES
-------------------------
* black-and-white pictures. To see more pictures, wait until the game 
  has loaded and is waiting for you to type something - then flip the 
  disc over;
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* the Amstrad PCW disc also works on Amstrad CPC and Spectrum +3; 
* README file. For more information, boot the PCW with CP/M+ as usual, 
  then insert the game disc and enter TYPE README.TXT

ATARI ST FEATURES
-----------------
* pictures on colour and black-and-white displays (use the mouse, 
  with its left button pressed, to slide the picture up and down);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  Backspace; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession); 
* variable text size, (experiment by pressing F1 or F2, then typing 
  a few characters). This will help television users; 
* Demonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration of 
  Lancelot, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game and WAIT UNTIL 
  THE FIRST PICTURE HAS FINISHED LOADING and the game is waiting for 
  a command. If necessary, press SPACE a couple of times so the game 
  can print the rest of its start-up message and reach the first 
  prompt, ">" or "What now?". Only then should you press Alternate R
* an interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger, 
  letting them benefit from new features. Copy the previous game to a 
  new disc, then copy GAME.PRG from the Lancelot disc, replacing 
  the old version. Hey presto! Variable text size etc; 
* README file. For more information, start the ST with a disc which 
  does not auto-boot (e.g a blank disc). Then insert the game disc 
  and double click on its icon and README.TXT. 

BBC DISC FEATURES
-----------------
* colour pictures on BBC Masters, B+ with additional sideways RAM, 
  or BBC B with both shadow and sideways RAM. (Smaller BBC show a 
  mode 7 text-only display, e.g BBC B with just sideways or shadow 
  RAM). On BBC Masters you can use the cursor keys, with SHIFT 
  pressed, to slide the picture up and down. 
  To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is waiting 
  for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* recall and editing of previous commands, on BBCs big enough to 
  show pictures, by cursor keys, DELETE and COPY ("forward delete"); 
* variable text size, on BBCs big enough to show pictures; press F0 
  and F1 to select between 40 and 80 column text; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO on big BBCs; 
* picture cache on very big BBCs (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* README file. For more information, turn on the BBC, insert the 
  game disc and enter *TYPE "README"

COMMODORE 64/128 DISC FEATURES
------------------------------ 
* colour pictures (use the cursor keys to slide the picture up and 
  down). To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is 
  waiting for you to type something - then flip the disc over;
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO; 
* fast performance when the pictures are turned off; partly because 
  loading from disc takes a little while (even though we use a good 
  turbo) and partly because not needing to maintain a moveable split 
  screen (between the picture and text) frees more processing power. 

IBM PC FEATURES
---------------
* pictures in MGA and EGA modes. (The disc just contains one set of 
  pictures and converts them on output when MGA is chosen);
* picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads); 
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and 
  Backspace; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (on machines with more than 128K); 
* demonstration Game. If you would like a continuous demonstration 
  of Lancelot, perhaps for use in a shop, start the game by entering 
  MENU and waiting for it to load. Then, before doing anything else, 
  press ALT R. Continue by choosing a display format as usual;  
* an interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger, 
  letting them benefit from new features. Copy the previous game to 
  a new disc, then copy AINT.EXE, MENU.EXE and MENU.TXT from the 
  Lancelot disc, replacing the old versions;
* README file. For more information, boot the PC from its normal 
  operating system disc, then insert the game disc and enter 
  TYPE README.TXT 

MAC FEATURES 
------------
* black-and-white pictures (use the mouse, with its button pressed, to 
  slide the picture up and down);
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession). 

SPECTRUM +3 DISC FEATURES
-------------------------
* black and white pictures, tailored for tv display (use the cursor 
  keys to slide the picture up and down). To see more pictures, 
  wait until the game has loaded and is waiting for you to type 
  something - then flip the disc over;
* recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys with SYMB 
  SHIFT pressed, and DELETE; 
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession); 
* the Spectrum +3 disc also works on Amstrad CPC and PCWs; 
* README file. For more information, turn on the Spectrum +3, insert 
  the game disc, select +3 BASIC and enter LOAD "READ.ME"


Copyright
---------
Please remember that Lancelot is protected by copyright and took 
a lot of research, time and trouble to produce, so make no more than 
one copy, for your own use, to keep only as long as you have the 
original game. Before copying any game you must check the copyright 
conditions in its documentation. 



Background 
----------

The legends of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table are 
known to all, but it is a sad fact that most modern interpretations, 
whether games, films or stories, seem to owe nothing to the original 
tales. 

You have surely seen the programs with Arthurian titles that, for 
example, turn out to involve something called "Merlin" jumping from 
platform to platform, while zapping orcs with fireball spells. 

Well, we got tired of waiting for someone else to do a proper job, 
so here's our faithful interpretation of the Arthurian saga. And, 
putting this on one side, I think it's our best game to date. I 
hope you enjoy it. 
 


"Lancelot" is based on Sir Thomas Malory's "Le Morte D'Arthur", 
published by William Caxton in 1485, as one of the first books to 
use modern printing.  

"Le Morte D'Arthur" was an amalgamation of Arthurian stories of that 
time. It omits a few of the tales, and anyone who thinks bugs are a 
modern invention should consider its multiple Elaines and wounded 
kings, but it is the main English source on King Arthur and an 
undoubted literary classic. 

(If you want to read the full Arthurian legends yourself, however, 
I recommend "The Once and Future King" by T.H White. It's a fairly  
free adaptation, but infinitely more readable). 

A much shorter version of the Arthurian legends is enclosed, as 
background to the game. We have tried, in both this and the game, to 
use modern English while keeping some of the linguistic flavour of 
Malory's original. 

The adventure follows Malory's story, from the foundation of the 
Round Table to its finest hour, the finding of the Holy Grail. 
Lancelot was chosen as hero because, while Arthur remains passively 
at court, Lancelot rides out to earn the title of "Best Knight in the 
World". He rescues damosels and captive knights, and goes on to become 
the only first-generation Round Table knight to see the Holy Grail. 

The game starts with a new scene in which Lancelot meets Arthur. 
After this, it follows Malory pretty faithfully, but omits the 
detailed jousting results and obscure feuds, which must have numbed
generations of English students. It also ascribes to Lancelot a few 
adventures which originally starred the likes of Gawain or Tristram. 
Apart from this, however, "Lancelot" sticks closely to the book. 

You don't get showy magic or excessive violence. What you do get is 
a game which recreates the Arthurian world, with both traditional 
adventure puzzles and some of the ethical problems involved in 
becoming a parfait knight.

The best of the books consulted were: 
Le Morte D'Arthur (2 volumes) .. Malory, Penguin, ISBN 0-14-043043-1
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight .......... Anon/Brian Stone, Penguin
The Once and Future King 
 ................. T.H.White, Flamingo (Fontana), ISBN 0-00-654010-4
The Plain Man's Guide to Ethics 
 .............. William Barclay, Fount (Collins), ISBN 0-00-626836-6

The most disappointing: 
The Book of Merlin . T.H.White,Flamingo(Fontana), ISBN 0-00-654045-7
The Mists of Avalon ..... Marion Bradley, Sphere, ISBN 0-7221-1957-7

And the most peculiar:
The Cauldron and the Grail 
 ....... Nick Mann, Annenterprise of Glastonbury, ISBN 0-9510682-0-2

The historical Arthur seems to be a mythologised composite of war 
leaders from Southwest England and Wales, dating between the slow 
collapse of Roman Britain, and the Saxon influx from the east. But 
we cannot recommend any of the over-inflated books on the subject. 
By far the best works are tourist guides to individual sites, e.g: 

Arthurian Sites in the West 
 ........ Radford and Swanton, Exeter University, ISBN 0-85989-026-0 
