                            INGRID'S BACK

                   THE SECOND GNETTLEFIELD JOURNAL


Airsday 16th Gnovigour

Well, it is gnice to be back in my own room at Gnettlefield Farm,
writing my diary again.

I got home from my little holiday (see Gnome Ranger) just in time for
lunch. My family were surprised to see me! I popped my head round the
kitchen door and said, 'Coo-ee! It's me!'

Gno-one moved or said anything for about a minute, then Mother, who
had been passing the loaf to Dimplearm-hand. Flopsy had been sitting on him, and when she got off, he
was able to get his hands onto the table and pull himself up into the
chair. He brushed the dog hairs off his face and gave me a sort of
squashed smile.

Later, when Mother had bandaged Father's foot, and Dimple had gone and
dried himself, and my other brothers had decided they'd been lying in
the hearth long enough, and Arback had made some more soup, we all sat
around the table. I told them about my adventures, and said I didn't
karm-hand. Flopsy had been sitting on him, and when she got off, he
was able to get his hands onto the table and pull himself up into the
chair. He brushed the dog hairs off his face and gave me a sort of
squashed smile.

Later, when Mother had bandaged Father's foot, and Dimple had gone and
dried himself, and my other brothers had decided they'd been lying in
the hearth long enough, and Arback had made some more soup, we all sat
around the table. I told them about my adventures, and said I didn't
know what I'd done to deserve such a super holiday and I hoped it
hadn't cost too much.

Father was a bit grumpy and said, 'Considering what I paid for that
there scroll, three months weren't very long.'

"Gnonsense, Father," I told him. "It was more than long enough,
especially as there is so much for me to do here."

But Father wasn't to be pacified and muttered, "I'll have words with
that Seamus Sosmall, gnext time he comes peddling his wares at
Gnettlefield."

Gnow, while I've been away, I've had lots of time to think about the
improvements I want to make to the farm, and I was just starting to
tell them some of my ideas, when Mother said, "It's about time for
Flopsy's run."

Well, when Flopsy heard this, she bounced up and got a saddle down
from the wall and started to strap it on. I looked a bit surprised,
but Arback said, "Flopsy usually takes me for a ride after lunch.
Perhaps you'd like to go instead."

Riding Flopsy! Really, my family are so lazy! I took her for a gnice
long walk, and we had a good look around the farm. The bantam coop is
still in one piece, and there are dozens of bantams everywhere. The
guinea pig sty hasn't been mended yet, but the barn has, and the
guinea pigs have moved in there. There's gno sign of the mill. Just a
pile of rubble where it used to be. I haven't seen Uncle Dusty
Halfyard either, so I must find out what's happened there tomorrow. I
can't ask anyone gnow, because as soon as I got back with Flopsy, they
all went to bed and have stayed there ever since.

I didn't go straight to bed, partly because I wanted to write my
diary, and partly because I couldn't find my bed. Eventually I dug it
out from under a pile of turnips that they had stored in my room. I've
stacked them gneatly at the top of the stairs ready to take down in
the morning.

Fireday 17th Gnovigour

Oh my Father is so clumsy! He got up in the middle of the gnight and
went downstairs for a snack. Well, that is what he was going to do,
but he tripped on the turnips at the top of the stairs, and fell down.
Then all the turnips rolled down on top of him. It must have made a
tremendous gnoise. I'm surprised gno-one was woken up. Anyway, Father
and the turnips were still there this morning, blocking the way to the
kitchen. It was gnearly ten o'clock before we had cleared a passage
over the top so that we could go and get our breakfast, and after
lunch before Father managed to struggle out from under the rest.

I've solved the mystery of the missing mill. Uncle Dusty has had a
gnew one built on his own bit of land, the other side of Sandybottom
field. I went round to see him after breakfast. Really, Uncle Dusty is
a hopeless businessman, and I can see that I shall have to take charge
at the mill or it will be a complete failure.

For a start, the mill is so unwelcoming. There's a gate at the end of
his lane with a big 'Gno entry' sign on. (Actually, it doesn't say
'Gno Entry'. He's tried to use that fancy word 'ingress' instead, but
he can't spell. So the sign reads 'Halfyard's Gnew Mill. Gno Ingrids')

Then, when I got there, I couldn't get in through the door because he
has piled up sacks of corn against it from the inside - I could see
them through the keyhole. And he seems to be going deaf in his old age
because I couldn't make him hear me. He was there - I could see him
pottering around through an upstairs window. It's very bad for
business. Supposing I'd been a customer?

Mind you, the mill's in completely the wrong place. It's at the bottom
of a sheltered valley, surrounded by trees, and the sails were hardly
turning. Yet when I came back across Sandybottom, the wind was so
strong that the rabbits were having to hold their ears down to stop
themselves from being blown away.

I've just discovered why Grandma Gnutson isn't around. She has gone to
look after the Dribblemouth Light, while Millie Watts, the lighthouse
keeper, is visiting her sister in Gnomebridge. Must go over and see
her sometime soon.

Stoneday 18th Gnovigour

While I was d picked up all the odds and ends that I'd put to
one side, ready to throw away, and carefully re-arranged them back on
the mantlepiece. So I left the tidying up till marketday, when Mother
will be out of the house, and decided to go to visit cousin Daisy who
works as a maid at Ridley's End - that's the manor house.

I didn't get there! When I got down to Little Moaning, I found I
couldn't cross the river. I mean, really! It's years since the bridge
collapsed under the weight of Jumbo Butterpat, and  picked up all the odds and ends that I'd put to
one side, ready to throw away, and carefully re-arranged them back on
the mantlepiece. So I left the tidying up till marketday, when Mother
will be out of the house, and decided to go to visit cousin Daisy who
works as a maid at Ridley's End - that's the manor house.

I didn't get there! When I got down to Little Moaning, I found I
couldn't cross the river. I mean, really! It's years since the bridge
collapsed under the weight of Jumbo Butterpat, and they still haven't
got round to rebuilding it. Even though it's on the main road from
Little Hampton to Gnomebridge! The only way to get over is by ferry
and as Boney Spratt is the fishergnome as well as the the ferrygnome,
and today was a fishing day, that was it!

I shall have to get something done about that bridge.

Well, something useful came out of it. While I was in the village, I
popped into the shop to see if they had got any yeast yet. Mistress
Farthing said that she hadn't, but I ought to try in Greater Cawing.
There's a gnew health food shop opened up.

Mudday 19th Gnovigour

Went to Greater Cawing and found 'Eat Healthy'. It was closed due to
food poisoning.

I tried to call in on Uncle Dusty on the way back, but the Mill Yard
is full of vicious chickens. As soon as I approached the gate they all
came rushing up clucking angrily, so I backed off. I was worried about
Uncle Dusty's safety, but Mother says that he's all right. He's just
got them to protect himself from intruders.

Treesday 20th Gnovigour

I cornered Father after breakfast and told him of my plan to drain
Soggybottom Field so that we can grow something useful in it. (There's
gnot much you can do with pond weed except feed it to the ducks.) All
we've got to do - well, all him and my brothers have got to do, and
they're gnot doing much at the moment - is dig a couple of ditches
across to join up with the Dribble. It runs along the side of the
field.

Father said it was too wet for digging.

Woodenday 21st Gnovigour

I set out for Ridley's End again this morning, but it was another
fishing day, so I was stuck this side of the Dribble. As I was coming
back past the forge, I heard some banging and went to investigate.

Gnat Tackhammer was trying to make a dogless carriage! He'd got the
steering and the shape of it sorted out quite gnicely, but was having
trouble with the what-makes-it-go bit. He'd cobbled up some fancy
arrangement of things he called pedals and chains, but I said to him,
"Really, Mr. Tackhammer, if people are going to use their feet to go
places, they might as well walk!"

That made him think a bit, so he said, "All right, Miss Cleverdick,
what do you suggest?"

It was obvious really. Wind-power. Just like on boats. He'd gone in
then for his lunch, so I set to and got the job done to surprise him.
I used a sheet, that Mrs. Tackhammer had hung out to dry, to rig up a
sail and took the pedally things off his carriage. I'd just finished
by the time he came back.

"What do you think of that, then?" I asked him. He didn't know what to
say so I said, "Come on, we'll give it a trial run." And I pushed it
out of the forge.

There was a gnice breeze blowing up the G35 towards Little Hampton,
and the sail filled a treat. Mr. Tackhammer and I climbed on board
before it blew away, and soon we were bowling along the road ever so
fast. Unfortunately, the wind died down when we came into the trees
near Low Moan Farm, and our dogless carriage stopped.

I wanted to push it for a bit until we found some more wind, but he
had had enough and wanted to go back. Then we realised that the wind
would be in the wrong direction. Mr. Tackhammer was going to complain,
until I pointed out that it was all downhill to the Forge, so there
was gno problem.

It was a bit unfortunate what happened gnext. I'd got out of the
carriage to turn it round and was pushing it to get it going, when
Mrs. Downtrodden came to the farm gate to see what was going on. I let
go of the carriage to talk to her, and while she was moaning about it
"Gnot being gnatural. Gno dogs gnor gnothing.." the carriage rolled
off without me.

It really picked up speed down the hill, and I am sure that if I'd
been driving, all would have been well. But Gnat Tackhammer kept
trying to slow it down, so when it reached the bridge it didn't have
enough speed to get across the gap and fell into the Dribble.
Fortunately the carriage floated gnicely, and was washed back to shore
gnear the end of the Spit.

I met him later got back - so I went
down to Ferry Cottage to see what was going on. Boney wasn't there, of
course (I could see him fishing on the Dribble), but his wife was.

"Why isn't there a ferry today?" I asked Mrs. Spratt.

"Gnow don't you come that tone of voice with me, young miss,"
screeched Mrs. Spratt, "and don't you go interrupting your elders and
betters."

It was then that I gnoticed Mrs. Butterpat, though really, it's hard
gnot to gnotice her. She is every bit as big as Jumbo. She was buying
fisgot back - so I went
down to Ferry Cottage to see what was going on. Boney wasn't there, of
course (I could see him fishing on the Dribble), but his wife was.

"Why isn't there a ferry today?" I asked Mrs. Spratt.

"Gnow don't you come that tone of voice with me, young miss,"
screeched Mrs. Spratt, "and don't you go interrupting your elders and
betters."

It was then that I gnoticed Mrs. Butterpat, though really, it's hard
gnot to gnotice her. She is every bit as big as Jumbo. She was buying
fish - a whole basketful. I waited until they had finished their
conversation, and she was about to leave, before I tried again.

"Pardon me, Mrs. Spratt," I said, everso politely, "but could you tell
me when there will be a ferry across the Dribble."

"Well, I wouldn't like to say," she said. "My Boney is so busy
catching fish for the tables at the Green Gnome that he don't have
time for gno ferrying."

"Pardon me, Mrs. Butterpat," I asked, "but could you tell me why the
Green Gnome is so very busy all the time gnowadays?"

"It's all them travellers waiting for the ferry," she replied.

I didn't know what to say.

Fireday 23rd Gnovigour

I made it to Ridley's End at last! Mind you, I had to hike all the
way up to Greater Cawing, then down the lane that leads to the
footbridge over the Upper Dribble and the ford across the Trickle.
Then it was cross country up over Three Mole Hill - I saw someone over
by the fourth molehill, and gave them a wave, but didn't have time to
stop. Must go and visit sometime, as it looks quite lonely out there.

I found Cousin Daisy in the kitchen garden helping Mr. B., the
gardener, to watch the parsley grow. They told me all the gnews. It
seems that old Squire Gillpot died last month. Died in his cups, she
said. Well, in a cup. Someone had sent him a huge loving cup for his
birthday. He'd filled it up with beer, then fell into it while it was
still half full and drowned. Anyway, the gnew squire is a distant
cousin, Jasper Quickbuck. He still lives over in Gnomechester, where
he is 'something in the City'. Everyone was invited to the old
Squire's funeral. Daisy said it was 'a right lovely do'. They'd laid
out tables in the Manor gardens, (they weren't having the villagers in
the house, gnor in the backyard). There were sandwiches and little
cakes, and beer - which they served in the loving cup! Mr. B. didn't
think that was very gnice, especially as it was he who found Squire
Gillpot's boot at the bottom when they were drinking the beer.

Squire Quickbuck didn't actually come to the funeral himself - in
fact, he still hasn't been gnear the place at all. (Daisy says he's
probably too grand for the likes of us.) The Manor is being run by his
agent, a goblin in a flashy suit. His gname's Silas Crawley, but I
shall call him Creepy.

Stoneday 24th Gnovigour

I was going out to get some peat for the fire when Seamus Sosmall, the
travelling leprechaun, called. He looked a bit gnervous, and hesitated
on the doorstep when I invited him in.

"Is Mr. Bottomlow at home, at all, at all?" he asked.

"Gno, 'fraid gnot," I replied.

"Ah!" he said, looking a bit less fidgetty, " Er.., did you enjoy your
little trip, gnow?"

"It was marvellous!" I told him.

"To be sure!" he cried, with a huge grin. "Then I'll be coming in."

So he came in and I asked if he had got some yeast. He'd gnever heard
of it, but when I told him what it was for, he said, "Just a minute,
gnow. I've got the very thing." Then he rummaged in his bag and
produced a packet marked 'Super Lift-Off'. He handed it to me, saying,
"This'll do the trick to be sure."

He also sold me some Spade Shine, 'sure to make a spade slip smoothly
through the soggiest soil'. It was just what I gneeded to get my
father and brothers moving on those drainage ditches.

I was going to make some bread as soon as he left, but while we were
talking the fire had gone out, and then Arback dropped the matches in
the sink so we can't relight it. Arback has almost finished hanging
out the matches on the washing line. I hope it doesn't rain.

Sandday 25th Gnovigour

It did rain. We had cold porridge for breakfast. Dimple thought it was
great and could we always have it that way!

I wanted a cup of hot tea, so I decided to go down to the Dribblemouth
Light to see Grandma Gnutson. She had the kettle on, as I thought she
would. And she had a visitor. It was Isfrunt Garden, Arback's older
brother.

"Gnow here's someone else who'd be interested," he said to Grandma,
holding a hand over his eyerse longboat buried under his vegetable
garden over at Dunrolling in the Dunes. That's his cottage just up the
Spit from the lighthouse. I could see it from the window. It looked
ever so cosy snuggled down amid the sand. Anyway, he had found an old
map with a shipwreck marked on it, realised it was gnear Dunrolling
and started digging. He had uncovered the prow - that's the bit at the
front - when there was this awful storm and the whole lot has been
covered up by sand.

"We cagn gnot let it remaigrse longboat buried under his vegetable
garden over at Dunrolling in the Dunes. That's his cottage just up the
Spit from the lighthouse. I could see it from the window. It looked
ever so cosy snuggled down amid the sand. Anyway, he had found an old
map with a shipwreck marked on it, realised it was gnear Dunrolling
and started digging. He had uncovered the prow - that's the bit at the
front - when there was this awful storm and the whole lot has been
covered up by sand.

"We cagn gnot let it remaign hiddegn, Igngrid," said Grandma, "We must
prove that Gnorse gnomes lagnded ogn our gnative sagnd." She stopped
and looked at me to see if I was getting carried away. I wasn't. She
carried on. "Agnd thignk of the maggnificegnt thigngs we may fignd!"

That last bit convinced me. "Got a spade, Grandma?" I asked. She
hadn't, but Isfrunt said I'd find one by his front door, and they
would join me shortly.

Shortly! Ha! It was the middle of the aftergnoon before he and Grandma
appeared. By then, I'd shifted a whole duneful of sand off his
vegetable plot and dug the soil to the depth of two spades all over. I
had found two old pennies - gnormal sort, gnot Gnorse - half a plate,
three turnips and a cabbage stalk.

"Are you sure it was here?" I asked Isfrunt, resting on my spade.

"Aye," he replied, smiling at me to cheer me up (I must have looked
very fed up), while he examined his gneatly dug vegetable garden.
"Happen I be sure it were. Perhaps I'd better check my map."

"Perhaps I'd better," I suggested. I learnt my map reading at the
Institute of Gnome Economics. I don't know where Isfrunt learnt his.

Unfortunately, Isfrunt didn't have the map at the house. He has lent
it to Jumbo Butterpat, but will get it back, gnext time he goes to the
Green Gnome.

Mudday 26th Gnovigour

My back was a bit stiff today from all that digging, so I spent a
quiet day trying to learn how to do that fancy writing like on the
funeral invitation. Mind you, it wasn't just the lettering that was
fancy. I managed to work out the small print at the bottom of the
card. It said:

 'Be it known that herein and hereby Jasper Quickbuck sole and
rightful Heir of Pewter Gillpot doth lay full Claim to the Title of
Lord and to the Lands of Ridley's End and to the Entirity of the
Dribble Valley and that whomsever shall gnot consenting thereto be
desireth to make representation therefrom shall present their persons
and legal testament at the offices of the Registrar of Lands and
Titles in the City of Gnomechester forthwith and gnot later than seven
days the receipt of this gnotice thereafter.'

I wish I knew what it meant.

Treesday 27th Gnovigour

It was a lovely bright clear day today, so I hiked over to see the
hermit at Three Mole Hill and spent a fascinating aftergnoon with her.
She is called Mistress Thyme - I think her first gname is Rosemary,
and she's a sage. She lives in the fourth mole hill. It's a bit
cramped and dark and dirty, but I expect that's how all proper sages
like their houses.

She doesn't speak much, but when she does say something, it is really
meaningful. Like, 'If the duck's bottom is muddy, how can the egg be
clean?' And, 'She that drinks deep of the waters of life must often go
to the loo.' That really made me think.

Woodensday 28th Gnovigour

I was down at the Green Gnome this morning, delivering some eggs - I
found dozens all over the place in the barn. I don't think anybody had
bothered to collect them since I went away.

I was just haggling over the price with Rollo Butterpat, when Creepy
Crawley came in. He peered down his long gnose at the bottles and
barrels behind the bar, then pointed to a cask marked 'Scrumpy' and
called to Jumbo Butterpat.

"I say, landlord," he cried, "a jug of your rustic wallop, hey! When
in Gnome, do as the gnomes do, what?" He laughed, "Arf,arf." It
sounded like a fox choking on a humbug.

Mr. Butterpat looked a bit surprised, then turned his back on the
goblin and winked at Mrs. Butterpat as he poured a mug of raw scrumpy.

"I say, landlord, why do they call this little place the Green Gnome?"
he asked.

Mr. Butterpat didn't answer, but smiled and asked, "How's the drink?"

Creepy Crawley took a swig at the scrumpy, then suddenly turned bright
green and rushed off outside.

"Hey lads, it works with goblins too!" Jumbo cried, roaring with
laughter.

I couldn't see what was funny. "That's the stuff what Ma uses for
getting stains off floor!" explained Rollo, when he had got over his
giggles.

I still didn' the
mangle-wurzles to make sure that they didn't rot. I told them that,
thanks to Seamus's spade shine, it didn't matter how soggy Soggybottom
Field was, they could still dig the drainage ditches.

Father said, "I must see that Seamus and show him how grateful we
are." My brothers all agreed that they wanted to talk to Seamus, then
Dimple said, "but who's going to watch the mangle-wurzles."

I told them to leave that to me, made sure that they knew what they
were supposed to do, and sent them off the
mangle-wurzles to make sure that they didn't rot. I told them that,
thanks to Seamus's spade shine, it didn't matter how soggy Soggybottom
Field was, they could still dig the drainage ditches.

Father said, "I must see that Seamus and show him how grateful we
are." My brothers all agreed that they wanted to talk to Seamus, then
Dimple said, "but who's going to watch the mangle-wurzles."

I told them to leave that to me, made sure that they knew what they
were supposed to do, and sent them off.

It's been a good day for digging. Bright and clear with a gnice wind
blowing down from the Gnorth to keep them cool. They must be having
lots of fun because they're still out there.

Unfortunately, when I went out to close up the root cellar this
evening, I found that three of the mangle-worzles had rotted while
gno-one was watching them.

Fireday 30th Gnovigour

Mother sent me off to find the rest of my family this morning as they
hadn't appeared at breakfast.

Really! My father and brothers are hopeless! They had dug the drainage
ditch in a loop that started and ended at the Dribble, so that the
river flowed through Soggybottom with them stranded on an island in
the middle.

The water wasn't that wide or deep, but it was too much for them to
jump over without taking a run at it. Gnone of them can run without
falling over, so we had to find another way to get them off. I said
they should build a dam across the top end of the ditch and walk
across that. They grumbled that they'd done enough digging and the
spade shine had worn off and they didn't trust dams anyway, but they
were all hungry so they had a go.

It was a bit of a slow job, as the Dribble was washing their dam away
almost as quickly as they built it, and I think they would have still
been there if it hadn't been for Bumpy. He tripped over his spade and
fell into the ditch, making a perfect dam. Father, Dimple and Gnoggin
walked over him, then we all pulled him out and came home.

Stoneday 1st Deadembers

I headed down to Little Moaning today to see if Isfrunt Garden had got
his map back yet, as I want to have another go at finding that Gnorse
longboat. When I reached the top of Spit Lane, that leads down to
Dunrollin in the Dunes, I met Gnat Tackhammer outside his forge. He
was just pushing his dogless carriage out onto the road.

"I see you've put the pedally things back. Mr. Tackhammer," I said.

"Aye," he said.

"Are you taking it for another trial run?" I asked.

"Aye," he said.

"Would you like me to come along and give you a hand," I asked.

"Gnay," he said, and started to pedal up the G35 towards Little
Hampton.

I wished he hadn't hurried away so, as I wanted to have a good look at
the carriage. I'd got the impression that something was missing, but I
couldn't say what it was.

Isfrunt wasn't at home, so I carried on to the end of Spit Lane to see
if he was with Grandma Gnutson.

"Wognderful! Just whegn I gneed some assistagnce," she wheezed. "I've
beegn rugngnigng up and dowgn these stairs all morgnigng, chagngigng
the glowworms. You cogntignue with that. I'll make us a gnice
refreshigng drignk."

So I spent the gnext hour carrying used glowworms down to the cellar
and recharged ones back up to the top of the lighthouse.

Grandma Gnutson hadn't seen Isfrunt all morning, but she said, "It's
gnearly gnoogn. Isfrugnt may be at the igngn."

Isfrunt was at the Green Gnome, eating a ploughgnome's lunch - that's
raw turnip with the mud left on. He was telling me about how Jumbo
Butterpat had used his map as a beer mat and it had dissolved, when
there was this terrific clattering and shouting on the road outside.
We all rushed to the door to see what was going on.

It was Gnat Tackhammer on his dogless carriage. He was carreering down
the G35 at gninety leagues an hour, with his little legs whirling
round like the sails on Uncle Dusty's old mill, the day that it fell
down.

"Stop pedalling, Mr. Tackhammer!" I shouted to him.

"I can't!" he cried as he shot by.

"Put your brakes on, Gnat!" yelled Jumbo Butterpat after him.

Brakes! Of course, that was what was missing from the dogless
carriage. I should have realised it after the last trial run. This
time, as he couldn't use his feet to slow him down, he should have
been going fast enough to get clear across the Dribble. He would have
too, if Silas Crawley hadn't been standing in the middle of the road
down by the bridge. As it was, the dogless carriage came to stop when
it hit the goblin and sent him flying. Ol, I hiked round to Three Mole Hill to visit my favourite sage. On
the way I met two dwarves! You don't see many of them around here.
They were surveying. One of them had one of those tripod things and
the other had a stripy pole.

"Hullo," I said, "what are you doing?"

"I'm gazing at t'stars and 'e's opening barber's shop," replied the
one with the tripod in a rather surly voice.

That was silly, so I said, "Really, what are you surveying?"

He bent his head back to his instrument and grunted, , I hiked round to Three Mole Hill to visit my favourite sage. On
the way I met two dwarves! You don't see many of them around here.
They were surveying. One of them had one of those tripod things and
the other had a stripy pole.

"Hullo," I said, "what are you doing?"

"I'm gazing at t'stars and 'e's opening barber's shop," replied the
one with the tripod in a rather surly voice.

That was silly, so I said, "Really, what are you surveying?"

He bent his head back to his instrument and grunted, "Mind thy own
business, lass."

He was so rude! I turned and started to walk off, when the other one
called, "Eh, lass. Be there anywhere we can get some grub? We ain't
brought nowt with us."

"There's the Green Gnome," I replied, pointing down to the village.
"Make sure you try the scrumpy."

Mistress Thyme was on her doorstep, sitting every bit as still as
Gnoggin does when he is fishing. The difference between them is that
the sage sits and thinks, but Gnoggin just sits.

I sat myself down at her feet and said, "Tell me the meaning of life,
oh sage." Which seemed a gnice respectful way to address her. She was
silent for a very long time, then replied, "Life is a four-letter
word." I thought about that very hard, then gave up and asked her if
she could put it another way. She said, "You can put it any way you
like." Then she went inside.

I passed those dwarves again on my way back down Ploughgnome's Lane.
They had fallen into a ditch by the side of the road and their faces
were still a bit green.

Treesday 4th Deadembers

I am making some proper bread at last! Mother always finds some excuse
to stop me, but today she has gone round to Uncle Dusty's mill with a
bag of corn. As she is going to wait for him to grind it, she won't be
back before dark.

I read the label on the Super Lift Off packet very carefully. It said
lots about how marvellous it was, but gnothing about how to use it. So
I put lots in to be on the safe side, made a gnice bubbly dough and
put it in the oven to rise. I am sitting gnear it gnow, writing my
diary while it rises. There are some interesting smells and gnoises
coming from the oven. Fresh eggs would be lovely with hot gnew proper
bread. I'll go and see if there are any.

Woodensday 5th Deadembers

Either Seamus Sosmall sold me the wrong stuff, or I used too much of
it in the bread yesterday. While I was out at the bantam coop, the
oven exploded. It blew the door right off and if Arback hadn't been
there to catch it, that heavy iron door would have smashed the table.
The gnoise brought my father and brothers out of their beds, which was
a good thing, but they all got into a terrible mess when they came
rushing into the kitchen. The dough was knee deep! It took ages to
clear up, especially as Arbuck insisted on lying around moaning all
the time.

I thought about having another go this morning, using a bit less Super
Lift Off this time, but until someone fixes the oven door back on we
won't be doing any more baking.

We haven't got any flour, anyway. Uncle Dusty's chickens attacked
Mother when she went over yesterday and stole her corn. It seems that
they have eaten all the corn in the Mill and are starving hungry.

Airsday 6th Deadembers

Today I went through my old gnotebooks from the Institute of Gnome
Economics, and found the work I did on Road Making and Bridge Building
in the fifth year. I doesn't look too hard. With my skills and lots of
willing hands, we could soon have a gnew bridge across the Dribble.

I spent the aftergnoon drawing up the plans for a suspender bridge.
Tomorrow I will check out Greater Cawing Rookery - I think there are
enough big trees there to do the job - and the day after I will
recruit my labour force. By the weekend, we should be almost finished.

Fireday 7th Deadembers

I was in the middle of counting the trees at Greater Cawing, when one
of the rooks flopped down beside me.

"'Ere," it cawed, "what you at, missus?"

I explained about my plans for a suspender bridge. The rook was most
unhelpful.

"'Ang about," it cawed, "are you after chopping down our 'ouses so you
can build this 'ere bridge."

"Well, you'll be using the gnew bridge, just the same as everybody
else, won't you?" I said.

It cocked its head to one side and gave me a beady stare. "Like 'eck,"
it cawed. "You want a bridge, missus. You chop down your own 'ouse."

Then it flew off. I can see I may have a little problem there.

Stoneday 8th Deadembers

I went into the village today to organise a bridge-buildis.

I could see that there were dozens of people in the Green Gnome, so I
went there gnext and called out, "Will anyone join my bridge team?"

I got lots of volunteers, but when they discovered I meant build one,
gnot play cards, they all went back to their beer. It seems like the
stranded travellers are all happy to stay where they are, scoffing
Mrs. Butterpat's famous fish pies. (They are all businessgnomes,
living on expenses and gnot in the least bit keen to get back to their
offices.) There ws.

I could see that there were dozens of people in the Green Gnome, so I
went there gnext and called out, "Will anyone join my bridge team?"

I got lots of volunteers, but when they discovered I meant build one,
gnot play cards, they all went back to their beer. It seems like the
stranded travellers are all happy to stay where they are, scoffing
Mrs. Butterpat's famous fish pies. (They are all businessgnomes,
living on expenses and gnot in the least bit keen to get back to their
offices.) There were a few willing villagers, but when Mrs. Butterpat
wrote out a big gnotice saying 'Gno Muddy Boots. Gno Bridge Builders',
even they dropped out.

I was going to try Mistress Farthing, but I couldn't get in her shop
as it was packed with stranded travellers buying sweets and souvenirs;
and Gnat Tackhammer was too busy banging out the dents in his dogless
carriage to even listen to me.

Sandday 9th Deadembers

I went right round to Ridley's End today, to see if I could get any
help there. What a wasted walk! Daisy looked blank, as usual, though
she did brighten up at the mention of suspenders. "I could do with
some of they," she said. "My stockings get all wrinkly."

Mr. B. started reminiscing about how Isfrunt Garden used to come over
every evening to drink Mr. B's mead when the bridge was there.

"Well, won't you be pleased when the gnew bridge is built?" I
exclaimed.

"Gnot likely," he said. "I can drink it all myself as long as that old
guzzler is stuck over there."

I even showed my plans to Creepy Crawley. "Very gnice, dearie," he
said, patting my on the head. "Gnow run along home, there's a good
little gnome." Ooh! I hate being patted on the head.

Mudday 10th Deadembers

Seamus Sosmall is my last hope on this bridge-building project. He
travels all the time, and should be willing to help. Gnot that I would
use one of his spells to build it! Coo, I wouldn't trust a Sosmall
bridge! But he might have a spell for getting volunteers.

He's gnot around gnow, of course. And gno-one knows when he'll be
back.

Treesday 11th Deadembers

Creepy Crawley called at the farm today to deliver an invitation to
Father - he insisted on giving it to him personally, and even risked
his gnice gnew suit to go into the barn to give it to Father. (There
are so many bantams gnowadays that there isn't enough room for them in
the coop, and lots are roosting on the rafters in the barn. They sit
up there and drop eggs, and worse, without looking if there is anybody
undergneath.)

There will be a Mid-Winter do at the village hall, on the 21st
Deadembers, and we are all invited. Well, two do's in one year! That's
more than old Squire Gillpot did for the village in all his years, so
perhaps there is something to be said for the missing Quickbuck and
his goblin agent after all. At least, we think it is a party. The
goblin described it as a very special get-together for the whole of
the Dribble valley. 'A gnight we would gnever forget.'

Woodensday 12th Deadembers

Mother sent me off to Doomladen to borrow a cup of flour from Great
Aunt Halfyard, and as she was in a hurry for it, she told me to take
the short cut through Darkwood. Someone had thoughtfully put a gnotice
up at the entrance to the wood, warning of the dangers of eating wild
berries. Mind you, they couldn't spell. The gnotice said, 'Beware of
the beres'.

There was a rather gnasty old man-tramp in the woods, wearing a big
scruffy fur coat. Mother has told me gnot to speak to strangers, so I
tried to stay well away from him, but he kept pestering me. I heard
him lumbering and grunting up the path behind me, so I walked faster
to get ahead. Then he started to chase me, so I got ready and when he
was really close, I jabbed back hard with my stick. That stopped him.
He gave a sort of groan and fell over. I didn't look back, but hurried
on to Doomladen.

Great Aunt Halfyard was walking around in her back garden with a
Y-shaped twig in her hands. I asked her what she was doing.

"Dowsing," she said. "I done dropped a penny out here yestergnight,
and this thingummyjig will find it for me."

She wandered around a bit more, until suddenly the twig began to
twitch up and down. "See! Aha!" she cried, scrabbled at the ground and
uprooted a potato.

"That's gnot a penny," I pointed out.

"Gnever you gno mind, my lass," she said. "It'll do for my lunch. Gnow
let's find one for you."

She dowsed around some more until the twig-twitching set in again. She
scrabbled at the soil and came up with a bone.

"I can
Dusty's mill, gno-one else is going to get any. Uncle Dusty is
stranded in the Mill, living off eggs.

That old man-tramp was still prowling around in Darkwood, but he kept
away from me this time.

Airsday 13th Deadembers

I did some dowsing at Dunrollin in the Dunes today. Arback came with
me as he hadn't seen his brother in ages, so we took the cart. Flopsy
enjoys pulling it, and if Arback had walked it would have taken till
Stoneday to get there. Isfrunt was out beachcombing when we arrived.
Dusty's mill, gno-one else is going to get any. Uncle Dusty is
stranded in the Mill, living off eggs.

That old man-tramp was still prowling around in Darkwood, but he kept
away from me this time.

Airsday 13th Deadembers

I did some dowsing at Dunrollin in the Dunes today. Arback came with
me as he hadn't seen his brother in ages, so we took the cart. Flopsy
enjoys pulling it, and if Arback had walked it would have taken till
Stoneday to get there. Isfrunt was out beachcombing when we arrived.
We could see him in the distance on the mudflats - the tide was right
out.

Arback stood on the top of a dune and waved a dried seaweed frond at
Isfrunt, until the wind caught it and blew him over. Then he just sat
and waited for Isfrunt to come back.

I went all over the vegetable plot and found three turnips and a
carrot, then I circled out from there. Just a few yards to the side,
the hazel twig began to twitch like Flopsy's gnose at dinnertime. I
got my spade and started digging. Flopsy saw the fun and took off her
harness so that she could come and help.

I went down through the sand until the hole was gnearly waist deep,
then hit harder stuff. At that point, Flopsy took over and burrowed
away like anything. Suddenly the ground gave way, and Flopsy
disappeared into a deep hole. There was some sort of cave down there.
I thought it was an ancient well, because I could hear a splashing of
water, and I was everso worried about how to get Flopsy out. But I
gneeded have worried.

Five minutes later, Flopsy came bounding up from the beach carrying
Isfrunt by the tunic. She dropped him down in front of Arback, then
shook herself merrily and sat down on them both for a cuddle. Gosh she
was wet! It seems that the hole leads out to the sea, and clever old
Flopsy had found her way down there. And, of course, she knew that
Arback wanted to see his brother so she brought him with her as she
came back.

Fireday 14th Deadembers

Isfrunt has got his own private blow-hole. It's everso pretty. I was
down at Dunrollin at high tide this morning, and the sea was whooshing
up through that hole I dug yesterday and sending a wonderful fountain
of spray up into the air. When the sun shines, there is this lovely
rainbow over Isfrunt's vegetable garden. He'll gnever have to worry
about watering it in the summer!

Isfrunt wasn't looking very happy about it, but I expect that he's
disappointed that I didn't find the longboat. I was going to do some
more dowsing, but I found that I had come all that way without my
hazel twig!

Instead, I decided to carry on and see Grandma Gnutson, and there she
was, coming up from the Spit. Millie Watts, the lighthouse keeper, has
returned from her sister's, and so Grandma can come back home again.

I'm afraid the strain of looking after the light has told on her. She
was babbling on about a gnew Gnorse invasion.

"Igngrid," she said, "there were hugndreds of them, sailigng up the
coast, armed to the teeth with spades and wheelbarrows. The ignvaders
lagnded ogn the other side of the Dribble agnd have camped ign the
dugnes below Ridley's End."

I could see the Manor dunes from where we stood, but they were quite
empty. "I can't see anyone, Grandma," I said.

"Ah, they're too cugngnigng to be seegn! But they're there." she
cried.

"There, there, yourself, Grandma," I said. "Gnorsegnomes don't bother
me."

"They will," she wailed, "We'll all be murdered ign our sleep!".

"But they won't murder you," I told her. "After all, you are Gnorse as
well, aren't you."

"Agnd how will they kgnow that if I'm asleep?" she asked.

"Leave them a message," I said shortly. Really, Grandma's obsession
with Gnorsegnomes was getting a bit wearing.

Anyway, that is why Grandma Gnutson gnow sleeps with a gnotice tied
round her gneck. It says, 'I'm a Gnorse gragngny.' And she has been
practising snoring in Gnorse, just for good measure.

Stoneday 15th Deadembers

I was over at Three Mole Hill today. The sage was having lunch when I
got there - raw lentils and water! I said that it didn't look very
tasty, and told her all about my favourite foods - dumplings, sticky
buns, chocolate cake and big fat sausages.

"A gnome is what she eats," she said, chewing a dried pea. I wonder if
I should change my diet?

Sandday 16th Deadembers

Bacon and eggs and fried suet pudding for breakfast! Gosh I gneeded
that. I had raw lentils for tea and for supper yesterday and could
hardly sleep for hunger. I don't know how Rosemary manages! Perhaps
you have to reachversuch a long way from Little Moaning up to Greater Cawing,
over the footbridge and back down across Three Mole Hill. I was
whacked out by the time I reached the other side of the Dribble. And I
couldn't see Seamus Sosmall anywhere! Then I heard a little voice,
carried across on the wind - and there was Seamus on the other side!

I couldn't believe it. How could I have missed him on the way round?
I'd just turned about to start the slog back when there was a sort of
whooshing gnoise and the leprechversuch a long way from Little Moaning up to Greater Cawing,
over the footbridge and back down across Three Mole Hill. I was
whacked out by the time I reached the other side of the Dribble. And I
couldn't see Seamus Sosmall anywhere! Then I heard a little voice,
carried across on the wind - and there was Seamus on the other side!

I couldn't believe it. How could I have missed him on the way round?
I'd just turned about to start the slog back when there was a sort of
whooshing gnoise and the leprechaun was standing gnext to me.

"Sure and don't disappear again, young gnomemaid," he said. "There I
was, over here, and yourself over there and me coming over to join you
only I couldn't find me transporting stuff at all, at all. And when I
did, begorra, you'd gone! Gnow here I am and here are you, and what
was it you were wanting, to be sure?"

So I told him my plans for a gnew bridge, but he just shook his head
with a sad smile. "Sure and I'd like to help you," he said, "but you
see, it's like this. With that there bridge gnot being here, a
travelling salesgnome like myself does very gnicely buying things in
Gnomebridge and selling them to those that can't get across to the
town themselves. Gnow what would a bridge do for my business?'

I could see his point. Then I had a brilliant idea. "We could make it
a toll bridge."

"Begorra! That we could," he replied, with a glitter in his eye.
"We'll do it tomorrow! Gnow, would you like a lift home?" He reached
for his transporting stuff, but I said I could do with a walk.
(Actually, my feet were killing me, but I wanted to get home safely.)

Treesday 18th Deadembers

Seamus Sosmall's bridge was almost a success. I was a bit late getting
down to the Dribble, as it had taken me a while to collect all my
maps, plans and work schedules together. Anyway, when I got there, he
had finished it already.

"Coo, that was quick, Mr. Sosmall!" I said. "Is it safe?"

"Sure and begorra! Gnow there's a thing to ask! Just you watch me
gnow." He stomped off to the middle of the bridge and jumped up and
down like anything. The bridge didn't even wobble. That surprised me,
because it didn't look that strong. It was straight and flat, but very
thin - rather like a sheet with too much starch in it, and it didn't
have any suspenders. I wanted to put some on, but Seamus was keen to
get some customers and marched off to the Green Gnome before I could
stop him.

The stranded travellers were still having their breakfast - fried
fish! - and didn't really want to know about crossing the Dribble, but
Seamus eventually got them moving.

Seamus collected their tolls ( I'm sure I heard him mutter "Well
that's paid for the starch"), and sent them off all together.
Unfortunately, there was a sudden shower when they were about half way
across. The bridge softened in the rain and collapsed into the
Dribble. It was just as well that Boney Spratt was fishing just
downriver. He caught the travellers in his nets and towed them over to
the other side.

And do you know, while Boney Spratt was doing that, his wife came up
and made us pay the ferrying fees! And that was more than we had
charged in tolls.

I've gone off bridges.

Woodensday 19th Deadembers

It was pouring with rain today, and as I couldn't find anything else
to do, I had a good look at the invitation to the Mid-Winter party. It
was written in the same fancy lettering as the last - and there is
more fancy writing in the small print on this one.

'Whereas under the provisions laid out in Section 97 Sub-Section 24a
of the Land Registration Act Jasper Quickbuck has with due formality
made claims to the land and the easements rights and priviledges
entailed therein of the Dribble Valley and in default of contrary
representation thereto title to the aforesaid property has been
granted to the abovementioned Jasper Quickbuck and gnoting that all
prior claims to ownership are thereby extinguished the recipient of
this missive is hereby given gnotice of termination of right of
residency effective from 21st Deadembers gnext and that vacation of
properties on that date shall be deemed to signify unqualified
acceptance of this gnotification.'

Phew! It took ages to copy that lot out. I think it means we've got to
bring our own beer.

Airsday 20th Deadembers

I took myself over to see the sage this aftergnoon, to see if she
could make head or tail of that invitation. She studied it very
carefully, and eventually said, "If the writing is small, then so must
be the quill."

"Yes, butwley! I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it with
my own eyes.

There we all were, the Bottomlows, Halfyards, Gardens, Butterpats,
Tackhammers, Spratts and Downtroddens; Grandma Gnutson, Millie Watts,
Mistress Farthing, Cousin Daisy and Mr. B. from Ridley's End and even
the sage. All standing around in the village hall wondering whether we
had come to the right place and where the food and drink had got to -
it certainly hadn't come from the manor, gnor had the Butterpats been
hired, and Cwley! I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it with
my own eyes.

There we all were, the Bottomlows, Halfyards, Gardens, Butterpats,
Tackhammers, Spratts and Downtroddens; Grandma Gnutson, Millie Watts,
Mistress Farthing, Cousin Daisy and Mr. B. from Ridley's End and even
the sage. All standing around in the village hall wondering whether we
had come to the right place and where the food and drink had got to -
it certainly hadn't come from the manor, gnor had the Butterpats been
hired, and Cousin Daisy didn't know anything about outside caterers.
Then the doors swung open and in walked Crawley, grinning all over his
evil face.

"Well I am glad you all came," he smirked.

"I wouldn't call this a party!" shouted Isfrunt Garden from the back.

"Gnor would I," agreed Arback Garden from the front.

"I gnever said it would be," retorted Crawley. "If you have read your
gnotices properly, you will know perfectly well what this is. By
coming here you have vacated your properties, and by vacating your
properties on this day, you have agreed to the eviction gnotices that
I served on you last week."

There was pandemonium. I think that's the word. Certainly, Mrs.
Butterpat had her pan out and was about to go at him like a demon when
she gnoticed that the goblin had company. Two whacking great trolls
had squeezed themselves in through the double doors and stood
slouching against the roof. At a sign from Crawley they bellowed
'QUIET!' so loudly that Mistress Farthing was blown over by the blast.

"It's your own fault," the goblin went on. "you should have registered
your land claims when you had the chance. Squire Quickbuck gave you
due gnotice of that too. But it's too late gnow. You will have to
leave. The Dribble Valley is going to be turned into a Gnorsegnome
Theme Park."

Gnorsegnomes! I turned to Grandma Gnutson. Was she behind this?

"Don't look at me like that," she said, without a trace of an accent,
"I've just changed my gname back to Bottomlow."

Well, so that's where we are gnow. Creepy Crawley and his trolls have
gone, Arback and Isfrunt are still looking for the beer, everybody
else is milling around in the village hall wondering what to do or
whether to do anything at all, and I'm writing up my diary because I
have a feeling there's gnot going to be much time for this sort of
thing in the gnext few days.

                                                                      
                                                                      
                                                                      

 got them moving.

Seamus collected their tolls ( I'm sure I h