Neil Scrimgeour                                              5/4/88
Sigma Software Designs 
125 Occupation Road 
Corby 
Northants NN17 1EG 


Dear Neil, 

          You should have received (or be about to receive, if the 
GPO's a bit slower) two packages with: 

1) Lancelot game design and picture details, plus sample pictures 
   and a demonstration game;

2) Final design, and two illustrated books on loan: the catalogue of 
   the Age of Chivalry exhibition, and one about Medieval tournament. 


TECHNICAL DETAILS. All being well, I would like you to produce 30 
pictures for Lancelot, on the ST and in Neochrome format. 

Colours are restricted as follows... 
* 0: always black; 
* 1-13: whatever you need for each individual picture; 
* 14-15: anything in picture 30 (the title screen), 
         two grey-like shades in the other pictures - the same in 
         each picture. 

The idea is that picture 1 includes a border around a rectangular 
picture area - something resembling a window frame perhaps - and the 
game then loads alternative central areas (pictures 2-29) on top 
(leaving the border alone). Thus the border of picture 1 should be 
drawn in colours 0, 14 and 15 alone - with these colours remaining 
the same in all pictures except the title screen (picture 30). 

The title picture (30) is full screen, but smaller areas are used 
from the other pictures. Use the same dimensions as those from the 
examine pictures on the disk enclosed.


STYLE AND CONTENT. The idea is to produce good-looking pictures, 
typically of places rather than of people, with similar composition 
to "Defender of the Crown". I feel it is important to get a lot of 
detailed texture and sharply defined objects - e.g show all the 
stones in a wall even if it's basically a fairly simple pattern 
repeated many times. And I'd rather have a small number of excellent 
trees, each cropping up in several pictures, than different wishy- 
washy trees each time.  

Finally, try and capture a similar feel to that of the Mediaeval 
pictures included. Your local library may have other coffee-table 
books on the Arthurian theme too. 


CONTRACT TERMS. We'd like ST Neochrome pictures for "Lancelot". 

Initially, I'd like to see 3 or 4 of the pictures to check that 
there are no problems and that your work lives up to the promise of 
the demo disk. 

All being well, we need 30 pictures for the game (see elsewhere for 
subject matter) and will pay a total of 1,000 pounds: 20 pounds per 
picture and a bonus of 400 pounds on completion. 

Please do the pictures more-or-less in reverse order (but leave the 
title screen, number 30, to last as the box cover has not yet been 
designed). 

We'd like them as soon as possible, and in any case within 6 weeks. 

Needless to say, you would get full credit for your pictures on 
loading screen and in the manual. 


FUTURE WORK. Assuming all goes well, the ST pictures for Lancelot 
will be immediately followed by CBM 64 pictures (I don't know if 
you can do these), and then the same two sets of pictures for our 
next game - Gnome Ranger II - which will be designed by the end of 
this month. 


I look forward to seeing your work, and hope all goes well. Please 
contact me if you have any questions.

                           Best wishes, 



                                       Pete Austin

