COMPUTER SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

This agreement, made this ____________ day of __________________ 19___
by and between:   Database Publications Ltd.,
                  Trading as Database Software,
                  68 Chester Road,
                  Hazel Grove,
                  Stockport SK7 5NY
                  (hereinafter known as 'Database')

And:              Level 9 Computing
                  (a partnership of PRJ, MJA and NWA Austin)
                  9 Mendip Road
                  Bracknell
                  Berks RG12 3XG
                  (herinafter known as 'Level 9')

Whereas, Level 9 are in the business of writing computer programs; and 

Whereas, Database is in the business of marketing computer programs 
and is desirous of marketing Level 9's computer program(s); and 

Whereas, Level 9 represent that they are the sole owners of all 
intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to copyrights, 
trademarks, servicemarks and logos used for the creation and expression 
of Level 9's computer program(s) and resulting visual images and 
displays which are the subject of this Agreement. 

Now, therefore, for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of 
which is hereby acknowledged, the above parties do thereby agree to the 
following terms and conditions:

1. DEFINITIONS 

   1.1. COMPUTER PROGRAM: the result of the authors' expression of a 
series of ideas in a form that, when introduced to a computer on 
electronic or magnetic media, or otherwise, enables the computer to 
perform the functions and create the visual images and displays that 
the authors directed by their aforesaid expression. Such expressions 
include, but are not limited to, expressions commonly referred to as 
source code, compiled code, semi-compiled code, data tables and 
graphics data, or any combination of these. 

   1.2. SOFTWARE: a word commonly used in the computer industry to 
denote a computer program, and sometimes is meant to include the media 
on which the computer program is retained. For this agreement, the word 
'software' shall mean the computer program and all attendant necessary 
documentation to enable Database to execute the conditions and services 
necessary to effect the rights granted in this license. 

   1.3. MEDIA: shall include all forms of retention and communication 
systems - electronic, magnetic or other - including, but not limited 
to, cassettes, floppy disks, hard disks, telecommunication systems, 
media read by lasers, ROMs, cartridges, and any combination of these. 

2. LICENSE

Level 9 hereby grant to Database exclusive world rights to duplicate, 
package, distribute, market and sell the product(s) defined in this 
Agreement, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, on media as 
defined herein. Level 9 further grant to Database the rights to 
reproduce the visual images, sounds and displays created by the 
product(s), on printed materials or otherwise, for the purpose of 
marketing and packaging the product(s). 

3. WARRANTIES

   3.1. Level 9 hereby warrant that:

a) They are the sole owners of the product(s) as defined and Licensed 
by this Agreement. 

b) They have the legal right and authority to enter into this agreement 
and to grant the license granted herein. 

c) The license granted by this Agreement does not infringe on any 
rights of any third parties.

d) There are no lawsuits, pending or threatened covering any aspect of 
the product(s); that there are no security interests beyond this 
Agreement relating to or covering any aspect of the product(s) or any 
monies, payments or royalties made or due on account of the product(s); 
and that none of the intellectual property licensed by this agreement 
and defined herein as the product(s) has been published or used in such 
a way as to lose any of their copyright, trademark, service mark, or 
other intellectual property protection. Level 9 agree to immediately 
notify Database in the event that any of the above shall occur during 
the term of this Agreement. 

e) The software licensed by this Agreement shall be provided to 
Database in a form and developed to a degree of functionality that 
complies with Database's quality assurance standards for operation and 
marketing. 

f) The software licensed by this Agreement will not cause any harm to 
the hardware components or software that it is designed to be used 
with, other than the minimal wear inevitable when data is read from 
moving media, such as cassettes and floppy disks.

   3.2. Database hereby warrants that:

a) It will, subject to the terms of this Agreement, review, duplicate, 
package and distribute the product(s) licensed under this Agreement. 
It is hereby understood between the parties that Database will use its 
best efforts to accomplish these tasks to achieve the best sales result 
possible. 

b) Ownership of the software licensed in this agreement is and shall 
remain the property of Level 9. 

4. ITEMS PROVIDED BY LEVEL 9 

The following shall by provided by Level 9 to Database: 

   4.1. Software

At a suitable stage in the development of the software for a product, 
Level 9 will deliver pre-release copies of the Atari ST version for 
testing by Database, in the hope of finding any bugs at this stage. 

On completion of the software, Level 9 will deliver to Database two 
copies of the software licensed by this Agreement for every format 
listed in the Schedule(s). One of each pair will be a 'Master' copy 
and one will be for archival purposes. 

   4.2. Documentation and Related Material

As the product is a game, Level 9 will provide Database with a copy of 
the game design, and also a master copy of the 'clue sheet', intended 
to give the solutions to all the puzzles in the game. 

   4.3. Subsequent Developments 

In the event that during the term of this Agreement, Level 9 develops 
any improvements, modifications or derivative works of the software 
licensed by this Agreement, Level 9 shall upon completion of its 
development inform Database of said improvement or modification and 
provide Database with the items described in paragraph 4.1 of this 
Agreement relative to the improved, modified or derivative software. 

   4.4. Acceptance Procedure

To be supplied.
 
5. ROYALTY

   5.1. Amount

Database hereby agrees to pay Level 9 a royalty amounting to ten (10) 
per cent of the retail price of copies of the product(s) sold by 
Database, less returns.

This percentage can be changed by prior mutual agreement between 
Database and Level 9; e.g for bulk sales made at large discounts to 
organisations such as book clubs. 

   5.2. Payment 

Advance payments against royalties, and minimum guaranteed royalties 
are as specified in the Schedule(s). Target launch dates are as 
specified in the Schedule(s). Royalty payments shall be made within 
thirty (30) days following the end of each of Database's quarter days 
(30th June, 30th September, 31st December and 31st March). 

   5.3. Sub-licensing

Database may sub-license the product(s) after consultation, with the 
permission of Level 9. 

Database recognises Level 9's strong wish for the product(s) to be 
sold in foreign markets such as the USA, and will make all reasonable 
efforts to achieve this. 

   5.4. Book of Account

Database hereby agrees to keep and maintain such books and records as 
are required to establish sales volume, revenue and returns. Such 
books and records shall be made available for inspection on a 
confidential basis, during normal business hours, by a third party 
acceptable to both parties to this Agreement, solely for the purpose 
of verifying royalty payments due, provided that reasonable notice is 
given by Level 9 to Database prior to such inspection and that Level 9 
bears the expense of inspection by the third party. 

6. TERM 

The term of this Agreement shall be for three (3) years. It shall 
commence upon the execution of this Agreement by both parties. Every 
twelve (12) months, the Agreement will be reviewed and if noth parties 
are in accord the Agreement will roll forward for another three (3) 
years. Either party will give sixty (60) days notice of intent to 
cancel the Agreement at each twelve (12) month period. 

7. NOTICE 

Notice shall be deemed given and effecive when written correspondence 
is sent by registered mail, delivery receipt requested, to the noticed 
party. Said notice shall be sent to the address above for the noticed 
party unless, pursuant to this paragraph, notice of change of address 
has previously been given to the other party. 

8. TERMINATION

   8.1 Termination

Either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement in the 
event that the other party commits a material breach of its obligation, 
or if a party discovers after the execution of this Agreement that a 
material representation was made by the other party. Intent to 
terminate shall be made by written notice pursuant to Paragraph 8.1, 
and shall set forth in detail the circumstances of the breach or 
misrepresentation. Termination shall be effective sixty (60) days 
after the date of the notice of intent to terminate, subject to 
Paragraph 8.2. 

   8.2. Right to Cure

Termination shall become effective unless the party notified pursuant 
to Paragraph 8.1 has cured or corrected the breach or rectified the 
misrepresentation within sixty (60) days of the date of notification. 
The breaching party shall have this sixty (60) day period to cure or 
correct the circumstances detailed in the notice to terminate and to 
notify the terminating party, including written evidence of such cure 
or correction. Upon doing this, the effective date of termination 
shall be cancelled. 

9. SAMPLES

9.1. Level 9 hereby grants to Database the right to use copies of 
the product(s) licensed under this Agreement, for the purpose of 
demonstrating or marketing the product(s), without any royalties 
being owed, due or paid.

9.2. Database will provide Level 9 with twelve (12) copies of each 
format of the product, as specified in the schedule(s). No royalties 
will be owed, due or paid for these copies. 

10. PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS

10.1 Products licensed under this agreement which are protected by 
patent, copyright or trademark laws will contain the appropriate 
notice of such protection. If Level 9 has not registered the item(s) 
provided under this agreement with the UK Copyright Office, Database 
may, at its option, act as Level 9's agent to perform all acts and 
prepare and execute any documents necessary to enable such 
registration. 

11. INDEMNIFICATION

Level 9 shall indemnify and hold harmless Database, its officers, 
employees and agents, for any reasonable expenses, costs, damages or 
judgements (including reasonable attourney's fees) arising out of 
claims that the product(s) licensed by this Agreement infringe on or 
conflict with any patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, or any 
other right of a third party. In the event of such a third party claim, 
Database shall notify Level 9 promptly of the claim. 

Database shall indemnify and hold harmless Level 9, its partners, 
employees and agents, for any reasonable expenses, costs, damages or 
judgements (including reasonable attourney's fees) arising out of 
claims that any trademark, publicity material or detail of packaging 
used by Database hereunder infringes on or conflicts with any patent, 
copyright, trademark, or any other right of a third party. In the 
event of such a third party claim, Level 9 shall notify Database 
promptly of the claim. 
 
12. GOVERNING LAW

This agreement is construed and governed under the laws of the United 
Kingdom. 

If Database and Level 9 are unable to resolve any dispute arising 
under this agreement, then such dispute shall be settled by 
arbitration by a single arbitrator or (in the event that the parties 
are unable to agree such appointment within fourteen days of 
notification by one party to the other) by an arbitrator to be 
appointed by the president for the time being of the Law society on 
the application of either party. 



SCHEDULE A

Working Title:  King Arthur     

Formats: Amiga ...... disk 
         Amstrad CPC/PCW disk
             "   CPC  cassette
         Apple II/IIe disk
         Atari XL/XE  disk
             "        cassette
         Atari ST ... disk
         Commodore 64 disk 
             "        cassette
         IBM PC ..... disk
         Macintosh .. disk
         MSX ........ cassette
         Spectrum ... cassette

Advance: 20,000 pounds, paid in four equal stages..

         1) On signing the contract. (For future games, this would 
            become "On agreement of outline design") 
         2) On delivery of first version for playtesting. 
         3) On acceptance of versions on the ST.
         4) On delivery of at least 90% of the masters. 

Minimum guaranteed royalties in first year: 40,000 pounds

Launch date: March 1988 



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement by 
their duly authorized representatives in the manner hereafter 
appearing on the date and year so indicated. 


Database                             Level 9

By:                                  By:




Address:                             Address:




Witnessed by:                        Witnessed by:




Address:                             Address:




Date:                                Date:



             

