









              Maeve Kane's Gnome Questionaire 
              ------------------------------- 

Name: Flora (Ingrid) Bottomlow. 
Date of Birth: 9 Sleptunder.
Star Sign: Virago. 
Place of Birth: Gnettlefield Farm, Little Moaning.  
Height: Just right.  
Colour of Hair: Wallnut.  
Colour of Eyes: Red. 
Educated: Ever-so-well.   
Occupation: Rebuilding Gnettlefield Farm.  
Dislikes: Stick-in-the-muds.  
Favourite food: Doughgnuts and gnoodles. 
Pastimes: Helping others. 

Which school did you go to? 
 Institute of Gnome Economics.   

Did you have any nicknames at school? 
 I was so busy that Mistress Gneehigh used to call me a little bee. 
   
How did you get on with the other gnomes? Did you have many friends? 
 Oh yes. We used to play lovely games of hide-and-seek. I was ever 
 so good at it. Do you know, one time gnognome found me for five days! 

Does being a gnome gives you a little advantage in life? 
 Gno, it's a big advantage. There's gno race like gnomes. 

Or does being a gnome have its shortcomings?
 Gnone, as long as you avoid getting trodden on. 

What do you consider to be your best features? 
 My talent for ideas and my get up and go. 

If you could change anything about yourself, what would it be? 
 Gnothing. I don't believe in gnome improvement. 

Do you think that appearance is important? Or do you believe that 
the inner self is what really matters? 
 Oh, its the inner self that counts. It's like Mrs Tackhammer says 
 about Seamus; he may be small and weedy to look at but he's ever 
 so big inside. 

Did you have a good relationship with your parents when you were 
younger? How do you get on with them gnow?
 Oh, wonderfully. They were always sending me away to school or 
 on holidays. 

What do your parents do for a living?
 As little as possible. 

What's the worst thing that has ever happened to you?
 I once had a whole day when gnothing happened at all. It was awful. 

Are you frightened of growing old? 
 Gno. I shan't start slowing down for a century or two. 

Do you believe in life after death? 
 Yes - We'll all end up in that Great Garden at 34 Arcacia Avenue. 

Are you interested in politics?
 Gno. I want to do something useful with my life. 

If you could be an animal, what would you choose to be?
 I wouldn't mind being a human for a few minutes. 

What is your favourite shop - Littlewoods? 
 I prefer British Gnome Stores. 

We don't know much about your feelings towards the opposite sex. 
Have you ever been in love, and are you interested in getting 
married and settling down? 
 Romantic gnonsense. Marriage is a business. Great Aunt Halfyard 
 says I should look for a sleeping partner with substantial 
 assets. 

If you had difficulty meeting a gnice man, would you consider 
placing a lonely hearts ad? 
 Gno, but I might advertise under gnome affairs. 

If you could be invisible for a day, where would you go and why? 
 What a funny idea! I'd much rather people could see me. 

Do you have any recurring dreams? 
 Yes, I had this one where this twit keeps asking me silly questions. 
