Paul Hibbard                                                  18/1/88
Rainbird
Telecom Soft
64-76 New Oxford Street 
LONDON WC1A 1PS


Dear Paul,

          Re: your fax of today. 

Basically, I would have thought that you would have learned by now 
not to take everything you read in the press at face value. 

While journalists don't deliberately lie - in my experience - they 
have been known to dramatise and over-simplify events (possibly this 
is inevitable when work is sub-edited) and the result can be at 
variance with the truth.  

Taking the first paragraph, for example, I can't recall ever using the 
word "sluggish" about anyone. And Level 9 have no current intention to 
go back to publishing our own adventures. 

The rest of the article seems to have been loosely based on press 
releases etc from around the time of PCW (I seem to recall that I was 
the one who eventually got a "pre-release" sticker put up beside "Time 
and Magik" to show that it was not quite the finished version which 
the writer seems to have believed). 

We have been very cautious about press statements (e.g in making a 
considerable effort to avoid comparing "Knight Orc" and "Gnome 
Ranger") and have said an absolute minimum to the press recently 
(just, when pressed, that Time and Magik will be published, but not 
by whom). Following our agreement of December, I have so far released 
nothing about leaving BT, and nothing to pre-empt an agreed statement. 

          I disagree with many of the staM to contract; L9 get rights to 
story and picture) then I will send a revised copy of Claire's 
statement (which contains a few innaccuracies, e.g as regards Level 
9's future plans) by return, and you can get something released 
without more ado. 

          Finally, I would like to categorically state that nothing I 
have said following our agreement of December could have led to the 
news item in question. Firstly because I have said no such thing, and 
secondly because copy deadlines would havM to contract; L9 get rights to 
story and picture) then I will send a revised copy of Claire's 
statement (which contains a few innaccuracies, e.g as regards Level 
9's future plans) by return, and you can get something released 
without more ado. 

          Finally, I would like to categorically state that nothing I 
have said following our agreement of December could have led to the 
news item in question. Firstly because I have said no such thing, and 
secondly because copy deadlines would have made it impossible. 


                            Yours sincerely,


                               
                                            Pete Austin
                                            Partner