








Peter Holme                    Page 1 of 1                   21/7/88
Mandarin 
Europress, Europa House, 
Adlington Park, London Rd, 
Adlington, Macclesfield, 
Cheshire SK10 5NY. 
Fax: 0625 879966. 

Dear Peter, 

           Regarding your fax of this morning: 

1) Thanks for the Lancelot manual, which looks to be fine. I hope a 
   copy is in the post as well. 

2) Time and Magik/Lancelot to USA. 

   We would like to see firm figures on this but, based on what we 
   have seen so far, it seems only fair that if we are to pay half 
   the cost of graphics negotiated specifically for the USA, Database 
   should pay half the costs of setting up the deal. We think that 
   these costs should roughly cancel out. 

3) Doctor Who. 

   We accept that royalties will be slightly reduced to take account 
   of the BBC's share. 

   a) Putting this on one side, it is inconceivable that we would be 
   prepared to do a state-of-the-art game for one quarter of the 
   normal royalty. 

   b) If you would prefer 'proven' techniques, please say so, but 
   this would not be in anyone's interest. If we are to work together, 
   Database must trust us to deliver what we promise. The risk is ours 
   in any case. 

   c) #20K advances are insufficient. Indeed, it is common for this 
   amount to be paid for Amiga/ST budget games. If Database had 
   confidence in the project, #40K would not be a problem. 

   d) We are greatly concerned by your report that the BBC now 






Nusarath Jahan                                             24/7/88 
5 Montague Road 
Handsworth 
Birmingham B21 9DF 

Dear Nusarath, 

              Thank you for sending the discs to demonstrate your 
graphical style, and with pictures for Lancelot. I enclose four 
discs in exchange, so that you will lose on the deal. Two of them 
contain copies of our previous Lancelot pictures. 

I like your work, and expect to contact you soon to see if you can 