1987 was another mixed year for adventures.  On the negative side, 
arcade adventures, role-playing games and MUGs remained disappointing; 
Rainbird's adventure teams brought out amazingly few titles; the trend 
towards favouring presentation over content continued; and the year 
ended with Activision making the baffling decision to withdraw most of 
Infocom's adventures (and thus giving a great boost to piracy). But, 
on the plus side, we saw: 16-bit micros finally arrive; adventure text 
exceeded 250K (will it break 500K next year?); PAW (unlike GAC, this 
seems to be an improvement over the Quill); a lot of new Infocom games; 
and a continuing slow improvement in the quality of adventures. 

Adventure reviews became ever more erratic, e.g with PCW 6-11/11/87 
describing "Lurking Horror" as "the ultimate insult to the Amiga", 
because it had no pictures (I shall refrain from naming a certain œ40 
strategy game which has great sound and pictures but can be finished 
in five turns). Perhaps the Adventurers Club should arrange a vote for 
the best and worst "adventure reviewer of the year" in addition to 
the vote for games. 

I've enjoyed being "honorary president", but all good things come to 
an end. Many thanks to all those who voted for me, but I can't accept 
the position for 1988; firstly because I think there should be a new 
president each year (I hoped Fergus would get elected, but the 
two-stage procedure chosen for voting works against non-establishment 
people) and secondly because I want to be free to take action against 
magazines which break copyright and destroy games by printing full 
maps and move-by-move solutions (see Hugh Walker's last article). 
ACL doesn't do this, but I'm worried about getting bogged down in 
legal quibbles if I'm honorary president of a magazine which prints 
partial solutions. 

Some hot news for the new year is that Level 9 and Rainbird have got 
divorced. It's no secret that we have not been too happy since Tony 
Rainbird left, but the final break can be traced back to BT's decision 
to put their project manager for Level 9 products, Graham Wayne, in 
charge of their PCW show stand. We concluded that this move made it 
very unlikely that Rainbird could publish a new Level 9 game for the 
show. It would have been very embarrassing to turn up at PCW without 
a new adventure, so we published Gnome Ranger ourselves. 

Gnome Ranger was great fun, and doing things ourselves allowed us to 
keep to schedule, while including a full month of play-testing. This 
convinced us not to use Rainbird for future games and we signed with 
another publisher. Subsequent events made it clear that a clean break 
was best, so Rainbird will not be doing "Time and Magic". More details 
soon.  

To answer some points from last issue, ST owners who don't want to 
invest in Atari's superb SM124 b&w monitor (it should cost just over 
œ100+VAT), will have the option of four text sizes on future Level 9 
games. The program is now being play-tested and will be copyable onto 
Knight Orc and Gnome Ranger disks. A pre-release is also available on 
picture disks. Personally though, if I played a lot of text adventures, 
I'd buy a monitor to get as much text on screen as possible. 

Next, Henry reported three "serious bugs" in Gnome Ranger. The first 
is that it doesn't understand "sniff" as a synonym when telling 
the dogs to hunt or follow the unicorn: true, but adventures don't 
have infinite vocabularies and I can't think of any other game which 
woulack of balance in the original report and in the 
action of specifically telling the Gnome Ranger reviewer to note down 
bugs. (In fact, he actually found a lot of my design choices instead!) 

Faced with such scrutiny, I think the game emerged with flying colours. 
However, this incident made me think about the dangerous question of 
bugs in adventures: let's be honest and start by admitting that all 
adventures have them (we're trying to simulate worlds in a small 
computer for heavens sake!). Nelack of balance in the original report and in the 
action of specifically telling the Gnome Ranger reviewer to note down 
bugs. (In fact, he actually found a lot of my design choices instead!) 

Faced with such scrutiny, I think the game emerged with flying colours. 
However, this incident made me think about the dangerous question of 
bugs in adventures: let's be honest and start by admitting that all 
adventures have them (we're trying to simulate worlds in a small 
computer for heavens sake!). Next, we can probably agree that serious 
bugs are unacceptable: an adventure should not crash, players should be 
able to finish it, puzzles should be fair, text should have been 
checked for spelling mistakes and a lot of effort should have gone into 
testing. But now we hit a problem, because resources are not infinite...

Level 9 (and others I expect) already spend more time on testing than 
on coding. Even so, this work cannot remotely compare with the time 
spent by all the people who play each game, yet to do even more would 
mean missing out on elsewhere (probably on design time, he says 
cynically) and actually lead to worse games. An intriguing proverb 
reflects on this problem: "The best is the enemy of the good". 

In case you think there is no risk, consider agriculture, where 
the emphasis on yield and appearance has led to flavourless modern 
fruit like the misnamed "Golden Delicious". So, by all means criticise 
bug-riddled games like LOTR, but please also think of the alternative  
if you are tempted to blow up minor faults out of proportion. 
