             LANCELOT DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9
             ------------------------------------------- 

DESIGN OUTLINE 

Lancelot. The game was a three-part graphical adventure, written in 
the third person and past tense (like this design). It followed the 
life of Sir Lancelot: his joining Arthur and Merlin at court; joining 
the Round Table; becoming the best knight in the world; having a 
discreet affair with Guenever and finally attaining the Holy Grail. 

The game avoided too many jousts and battles. Instead, the emphasis 
was on solving adventure-type puzzles (mostly gleaned from the 
legends, but with "twists" to provide novel solutions) for the first 
stage of the game; followed by more political and moral puzzles during 
the search for the Grail. 

                              PROGRAMS            

The game was made up of three adventure programs, corresponding to 
Camelot, Logris (England), and the Grail Lands. Transfer between them 
was automatic with disk versions; with cassette versions, you were 
told when to play a tape. The second two parts could be played 
seperately, but to get a maximum score, and complete the adventure, 
it was necessary to start at the beginning. (In fact, finishing the 
whole game involved loading the programs in the order 1, 2, 1, 3.)


                           PART 1 (CAMELOT)
                           ----------------

Outline map:               LOGRIS (PART 2)
(Capitals                         |
indicate              Start -- CAMELOT --> GRAIL LANDS (PART 3)
importance.)                      |
                          Castle Meliagaunt

The game started on Lancelot's way to Camelot; he was challenged at a 
ford by a black knight and defeated him. Sparing the black knight 
earnt Lancelot honour; trying to finish him off led to the instant 
appearance of Arthur's guards (for this was who the knight was). 
Arthur invited Lancelot to come and be knighted in Camelot, then rode 
off, leaving him alone. 

The city of Camelot had four gates in this game. The east gate was 
magically closed, with a prophesy over it, until the Round Table was 
complete (i.e when Lancelot had finished the first parts) and the 
knights saw the Holy Grail at the Pentecost celebration immediately 
after. The north gate led to Logris (part 2), while the other two 
gates were just exits to the surrounding countryside. Lancelot 
arrived from the west.

It was late by the time Lancelot reached Camelot, to be greeted at the 
gate by Sir Kay. Kay sneered at Lancelot's appearance and his lack of 
courtesy for arriving so late, but said that Lancelot could have a 
room in the Mews. Assuming Lancelot went to the Mews and stayed in his 
"room" for a while, he fell asleep and woke up the following morning 
to the screeching of birds perched overhead. Kay met him when he left 
the Mews and laughed at Lancelot's bespattered appearance. 

Lancelot explored the town, avoiding the warrens, where the common 
folk lived and where sundry unpleasant surprises awaited the noble 
traveller, and found the narrow stairs to Merlin's rooms. Merlin's 
library contained much useful information (it was organised in the 
same way as the Alchemist's library in Gnome Ranger)and Merlin gave a 
number of hints as a pottered about. If Lancelot had avoided sleeping 
in the Mews on first reaching Camelot, Merlin gave him a room. 

When Lancelot woke, it was the following day and Arthur's hall was 
now unlocked, so he went there, joined Arthur and Guenever for a meal 
and was knighted. Lancelot realised that he was in love with Guenever, 
but she refused to even consider letting a novice be her champion, so 
Lancelot determined to travel through Logris and prove himself the 
best knight. (Gosub "Logris".)

Lancelot's future relationship with Guenever depended on his score. 
Once he had done reasonably well, she invited him to join her to 
celebrate Maying in the woods and fields beside Westminster. But, by 
the time Lancelot reached there, Guenever had been kidnapped by Sir 
Meilagaunt. He rode after them; transferring to a cart (which worked 
in the same way as the boats, if directed by the carter) when his 
horse was killed (See later for details of Meliagaunt's castle). 

Once all the Round Table Knights were rescued, a lengthy message 
explained how many years went past (allowing for Galahad to reach a 
sensible age) and then a prophesy appeared above the Seige Perilous 
about his imminent arrival. In the meantime, Guenever and Lancelot 
had an affair, culminating in an unfortunate incident on the night 
before the Grail appeared, when Lancelot went to the queen's room to 
take his leave of her, giving Mordred the opportunity to surprise him 
there. Trapped with no weapons or armour, Lancelot had to act before 
Arthur arrived, or lose most of his hounour. He opened the door; Sir 
Colgrevaunce stumbled through; Guenever closed the door and Lancelot 
hit the knight with a footstool. Once armed in the knight's equipment, 
Lancelot defeated the other hostile knights, and those who were not 
killed promised silence.
 
Next Lancelot was summoned to the main hall, where a lengthy chunk of 
plot exposition revealed how the Holy Grail was seen by the host, and 
how Gawain inspired the other knights on a tragic quest to find the 
grail again and return it to Camelot. (Go to "Grail Lands".)

* Castle Meliagaunt

Normally, Lancelot could easily ride to Meliagaunt's castle, though 
there was no way in: the drawbridge was closed and, although he could 
climb the ladder to what would be "Guenever's window", Lancelot found 
he lacked the desperate strength needed to break its bars. 

After Guenever had been kidnapped, Lancelot had to commandeer cart 
and carter to reach the castle, as described above, but the porter 
ran away and left the gate unguarded. Sir Meliagaunt knelt to Guenever 
and she insisted that Lancelot spare him; thereafter deciding to spend 
the night there and invite Lancelot to her room.  

He climbed the ladder, broke the window bars and entered. (Though 
Lancelot was not told at the time, he had injured his hand and future 
examinations of the queen's bed would reveal the blood). When day 
broke, Lancelot had to leave hurridly before Meliagaunt called on the 
queen (it would be most dishonorable to be found there). 

Lancelot heard shouting (Meliagaunt had found the blood and accused 
the queen of sleeping with one of her guards, wounded in her kidnap). 
Had he charged straight in, Lancelot's own injury would have been 
spotted and he been accused, with loss of honour. But, it would have 
been much worse had he not gone, for Meliagaunt's audible shouts of 
increasing fury would have been followed by the queen's death. 

Examining himself, Lancelot discovered his injury and first went to 
his own room, wearing a pair of gloves from the clothes chest. He 
hurried back to the queen, before Meliagaunt could slay her in his 
rage, and defended Meliagaunt's challenge to the queen's honour - 
agreeing to fight on her behalf some days hence. 

As Lancelot left and reached the dark stairs from the bedroom, a 
message reported the lights going out and the floor giving way; 
Lancelot found himself in a prison cell, with Meliagaunt's laughter 
ringing in his ears. A damosel kept entering, promising Lancelot his 
freedom if he would promise to be hers (which would be untrue to 
Guenever and hence dishonorable). Even on the final day, when the 
queen was to be burnt on the lawn outside Arthur's castle as an 
adultress if Lancelot was not there to defend her, he refused the 
damosel. She then offered to free Lancelot in exchange for a kiss: 
had he refused, Guenever would have died (disasterous for Lancelot's 
score); so he accepted, kissed the damosel, dashed to Meliagaunt and 
killed him (when he died, the game described how Meliagaunt 
surrendered and would only fight if Lancelot removed some armour and 
fought with one hand tied behind his back.. just as a message). 


                           PART 2 (LOGRIS)
                           ---------------

Lancelot had to ensure nine knights reached the Round Table, in order 
that it could be complete and the Holy Grail appear:

1.  Cornwall     Tintagel Castle   Burn fleet to reach Tristram.
2.  Gaul         Corbin Castle     Survive adventures and sire Galahad.
3.  Servage      Castle Perilous   Defeat giant to free Bors de Ganis.
4.  Listinoise   Wailing Castle    Defeat Breunis to free Meliagaunt.
5.  Logris       Castle Chariot    Escape from prison and free Gawain.
6.               Turquin's Manor   Free prisoners, e.g Ector de Maris.
7.  Northgales   Castle Lyoness    Fight and recruit the Red Knight.
8.               Old Manor         Visit Chapel Perilous; cure Meliot.
9.  Orkney       Round Tower       Free Sir Lamorak.

Nimue could be called upon for hints. 


Outline map:                     ORKNEY    ISLE OF SERVAGE
(Capitals show                     |      /
importance.)       NORTHGALES -- LOGRIS -+- GAUL
                                /  |
          CORNWALL -- LISTINOISE   CAMELOT (PART 1) --> GRAIL LANDS
                                                         (PART 3)

* CORNWALL

Kimg Mark had trapped Tristram in Tintagel Castle. In turn, Tintagel 
was beseiged by an army of the Sessoins', who prevented any entry. 

A cart shuttled back-and-forth between the army and the Sessoins' 
ships on a nearby beach. Lancelot was blocked by sentries if he 
tried to reach the beach openly, but he could hide in the cart to 
get past them. 

Then, Lancelot upended a great cauldron which was bubbling with soup 
on a bonfire, filled it with coals from this fire, ignored the pain 
and carried it to the deck of the main ship, where he tipped the 
burning embers onto a pile of sails on deck. Lancelot had just 
enough time to escape before the army returned, but their efforts to 
extinguish the flames were in vain and the resultant fire destroyed 
their whole fleet. The Sessoins surrendered and the elders of Tintagel 
lauded him as a hero. 

However, when Lancelot entered the castle, far from freeing Tristram, 
King Mark locked Lancelot up with him. Tristram sighed that he wished 
he had his harp; if Lancelot gave one to him, Tristram played it and 
so inspired the guards that they freed everyone (mention Tristram 
jumping down from a chapel window). If Lancelot had no harp, Merlin 
had to rescue Lancelot as usual (he knew that it was needed because 
of a prior hint from Merlin). *

* Gaul

Corbin. Lancelot came to a tower, over whose door was described the 
fate of Elaine, cursed by Queens Morgan and Northgales to simmer in 
boiling water until rescued by the best knight in the world. 
Providing Lancelot had earned enough honour, and had defeated the 
dragon below, he could lead her forth (picture), and she invited him 
to Corbin Castle (the Castle Adventurous) which was otherwise barred 
to adventurers. 

Two people were needed in Corbin's chapel, to lift the heavy lid of a 
tomb; carved with "Here shall come a leopard of king's blood, and he 
shall slay this serpent, and this leopard shall engender a lion in 
this foreign country, the which lion shall pass all other knights". A 
horrible, fiendly and fire-spitting dragon emerges; its breath 
scaring off everyone else. Lancelot could kill it (just) if he kept 
chopping away. 

On entering Corbin castle, a message was printed about how King 
Pelles and Elaine arranged a feast for Lancelot, ending with the 
King inviting Lancelot to stay the night and Elaine making her 
love for Lancelot pretty obvious. (If it was not the first time, 
a message was first printed about events being as before). 

Lancelot had the choice of leaving the castle (message about 
"stumbling out into the gloom to sleep in a ditch" and loss of 
honour) to presumably return again later; sleeping with Elaine 
(accepting her offer cost him honour, because it would be betraying 
Guenever, and bypassed the following puzzles - he had a y/n chance 
to leave the room on seeing Elaine though), but he could win honour 
by preferring the room next door and remaining true to Guenever..

Lancelot was warned he would lose honour for leaving the room, which 
contained only a bed, a door back to the castle and an unopenable 
panel in the wall. Lancelot fell asleep whenever he lay on the bed, 
and experienced the following visits: one per awakening, the panel 
opening each time (though a force stopped Lancelot going through it) 
and closing afterwards... 
+ A glowing spear which wounded him in the shoulder. 
+ A knight who emerged and fought valiantly; when badly wounded, he 
  staggered back through the panel and emerged even stronger than 
  before. Lancelot would have died, had he not closed the panel - 
  which took several attempts. 
+ An old man, bearing adders and the spear of vengeance, with a 
  message (the puzzle was for Lancelot NOT to attack him, so this 
  was not just a message). 
+ A message about four gentlewomen and a Bishop. 
+ Cock-crow, with the door back to the castle finally opening for 
  Lancelot to leave in honour. On leaving, Lancelot had no choice 
  but to accept a drink from Elaine (just a message) and, under its 
  effects, sleep with her as below (but with no loss of honour). 

Sleeping with Elaine just involved a message being printed; Galahad 
being conceived (necessary if the Round Table was to be completed) 
and Lancelot being dumped outside. He couldn't subsequently return 
to Corbin Castle. * 

* Isle of Servage

A magic boat was beached on the northeast coast of Logris: it moved 
in whichever direction an occupant moved (except "Leave") and so, if 
there were several occupants, could move several times in one turn. 

A group of mermaids sat on a rock off Servage, playing a harp. If 
anyone was there at the end of the turn, they snatched back the harp 
(if appropriate) and jeered at the boat as it was washed past. 
Fortunately, a group of people could get the boat to there and back, 
obtaining the harp for later use by Tristram (described as a musician). 

The local fishermen advised Lancelot to leave, saying that the local 
lord was the Giant, Sir Nabon le Noir, who ate visitors (he already 
had one knight awaiting this fate). 

Launcelot entered the castle and found Sir Nabon, who revealed that
the prophesy that he could only be killed by a blow from a saint's 
right hand; he had removed the right hand from the only saint he met 
and slept with in in the sack which he used for a pillow. Nabon 
challenged Launcelot to a fight tomorrow and, feeling totally secure, 
returned to sleep.  

The sack couldn't be examined, or its contents seen, until it was 
removed. If the giant had no pillow at the end of the turn, his head 
fell and he woke (similarly he woke if he got two pillows), retrieved 
the sack and attacked: the idea was to remove it and get someone else 
to immediately replace it with something soft. Then the giant could be 
killed if struck by the mummified relic (he ran away if, after waking 
and grabbing the sack, he realised that the hand was missing). 

A heavy prison door stood shut behind the giant. Trying to open it, 
or attack the giant, woke him. The door had a key-hole but there was 
no key in the game. In fact, the door was not locked - just too stiff 
to move unless pushed by two people. Opening it freed a captive 
knight. * 


* LISTINOISE 

Listinoise Castle was in the middle of a trackless marsh. Lancelot 
got disorientated by the mist and any attempt to move there left 
him back at the edge. However, the Horn could be heard in adjacent 
locations (e.g "A horn sounded from the south"), and this gave 
Lancelot enough idea of direction to reach the castle. 

 Marsh Edge -north-> Trackless Swamp -north-> Listinoise Castle
          ^                               |
          +--movement when disorientated--+

Wounded King Pellam told Lancelot about the Holy Grail and revealed 
a vital clue to its whereabouts. *

Within a forest maze stood the Wailing Castle, home of Sir Breunis 
Saunce Pite. Assuming nobody was waiting outside the door, Breunis 
would periodically ride out to Launcelot (though not following him 
inside any building) and fight him. If he encountered any maiden, Sir 
Breunis would snatch her up for his collection. Only Launcelot could 
hurt Breunis, but he could not be easily defeated for, if he was hurt, 
Breunis rode back home with all speed. 

When Breunis reached the Wailing Castle (outside which could be 
heard the crying of his captive lady prisoners), the door opened, 
he rode in next turn and the door instantly closed. Thus, nobody 
following him could get in but, because Breunis moved late in the 
turn sequence, someone waiting for him outside the castle could rush
in and reopen the door from inside. Then Launcelot entered, made 
short work of Breunis, and freed his captive ladies and knights. 

The forest maze was difficult to map, but this was - of course - not 
necessary as Launcelot could get to the centre by following Breunis 
to the Wailing Castle. *

* LOGRIS 

Castle Chariot was the fortress of the witch-queen, Morgan le Fay, 
and stood in a dense forest. The only path was blocked by briars, 
which grew so fast that one person alone could make no progress in 
hacking them down; with two chopping away, the main stem was 
eventually revealed and severed. 

Once past here, Lancelot reached the castle, which stood beside a 
clearing with an apple tree. On first arriving here, Lancelot fell 
asleep; four queens rode up and demanded that he choose one of them 
for his love ("Which one of us will you choose for your love?"). 
Accepting any of them kept Lancelot his freedom, but at the cost 
of much honour (Guenever was furious when next they met); answering 
"none" or "Guenever" resulted in Lancelot being imprisoned in 
Castle Chariot (any companions were locked up in the next cell). 

Shortly afterwards, Morgan entered, offered Lancelot a cup of wine 
and asked if Lancelot had changed his mind. The wine was a love 
potion; drinking this or accepting one of the Queens got Lancelot 
freed at the expense of his honour (as above). 

After Morgan left, a Damosel entered with food for Lancelot. (In 
the absense of any action, Morgan and the Damosel repeat this 
process each "day"; the damosel removing Lancelot's old plate and 
subsequently re-entering with fresh food.) Lancelot offered her 
the wine; she accepted it, fell in love with Lancelot, kissed him 
chastely and unlocked the door. Pausing only to open the nearby 
cells, freeing their captives and knights, Lancelot escaped. *

Turquin's Manor was basically a complex prison, with the idea of 
trapping knights who came to rescue their fellows:

          Secret Passage   \           Guardroom
          |                 Courtyard     |
    -- Gateway -- Entrance /         \ Upper Prison -- Lower Prison

While he was alive, Turquin rode out to challenge Lancelot each time 
he arrived outside the Manor. If Lancelot refused (or if Lancelot 
subsequently breaks off the combat), Turquin banged on the door and 
rode back into the Manor (this action was to justify his entry 
unscathed - it signalled the guards to disable the traps - but if 
anyone else knocked, dirty water was thrown down upon them). Combat 
went on for a long while, then Turquin submitted and fled. While alive 
and outside the Manor, Turquin blocked all attempts to enter.  

The Gateway of Turquin's Manor appeared open and unguarded, but there 
was loose planking in the floor and a "secret panel" in one wall. Any 
attempt to go through the Gateway to the Entrance Passage resulted in 
the planking being pressed; the panel opened (unless already open) and 
a poisoned arrow was fired at each person who passes (Lancelot dodged 
but anyone else was incapacitated); finally, the panel closed unless 
someone grabbed it (once held open, people could pass freely through 
to the Secret Passage). 

The Entrance Passage also had its loose planking: this was one end of 
a "see-saw" and, unless someone was first standing on the corresponding 
planking in the Secret Passage, any attempt to pass between the 
Entrance Passage and the Courtyard tipped the traveller into the Lower 
Prison and alerted Morgan's guards (Lancelot got a Y/N option to jump 
back). 

Entering the Upper Prison from the Courtyard triggered a Bell to ring 
at the end of the turn (Lancelot got a chance to jump back and avoid 
this if he was the one triggering), unless it was grabbed and muffled. 
The Bell summoned the nearby guards next turn. 

A lever in the Upper Prison made a grating noise when pulled; it 
toggled the locking machinery in the Prison below, allowing/preventing 
prisoners being freed. A Winch could be turned, lowering/raising a 
cage between here and the Lower Prison; it squeaked a little and 
alerted the guards to enter ten turns later (a conversation of the 
form "What was that?", "Nothing", "Someone go and check", "Go 
yourself!" could be heard through the guardroom door). Opening the 
Guardroom door alerted the guards immediately, of course. 

The Lower Prison was used by Turquin to whip his prisoners, so there 
was a scenic whip on one wall. The prison held nine knights (plus any 
others left behind by previous, failed, rescue attempts). There was 
not enough time for one person to unlock all the others unaided, so 
Lancelot freed one and gave him orders to unlock half the others. 
When the cage started to rise, all the free people not already on it 
grabbed the bars and were carried up too.  

When the Guards emerged, everyone in the Prisons was locked up. 
(Throughout the game, if Lancelot was captured in this sort of way, 
with no hope of escape, it was treated in the same way as "death"). 
Everyone who was nearer the gateway was herded out (by a single deus 
ex machina), with messages emphasising Lancelot's brave rear-guard 
fight, and dumped outside Turquin's Manor. *

Garlon lived in a Turret in the Forest and, whever Lancelot rode 
past, would ride out invisible (though Lancelot could see the door 
open and hear hoofsteps) and attack. If Lancelot had fought back, he 
would have eventually been killed, so he could either run away (at 
the loss of some honour) or use cunning to defeat invisible Garlon. 

Lancelot went into Garlon's Turret, followed by Garlon, and closed 
the window shutters to block the light. Once in the dark, invisibility 
was no longer an advantage and Lancelot easily defeated Garlon. *

* NORTHGALES 

Lancelot was passing an Elm, on the main road beside a castle, when 
a lady ran from the castle and asked Lancelot to rescue her falcon, 
which was tangled in the tree ("again" was added if it was not the 
first time). She stopped anyone else climbing the tree, saying that 
she would be greatly honoured if Lancelot would rescue the bird 
himself. (He gained honour for this.) 

     Roadside+Castle -up-> Lower Branches of Elm -up-> Treetop 

Lancelot was forced to remove his armour in order to climb the tree, 
where he found a bloated and dim-witted bird, trapped by the red tapes 
of its lunes, which had become tangled in the tree. Had he just freed 
it, the falcon would have flown away, so Lancelot tied the bird to 
a convenient broken branch and threw this down: a cry of thanks from 
below confirmed his success. 

Had Lancelot been accompanied by anyone, he would have next heard the 
sounds of fighting. In any case, once he had descended, Lancelot 
encountered Sir Pedivere, who taunted him for being helpless without 
armour, explained his wife had arranged the falcon business as a trap, 
and threatened to kill him. Lancelot could not have fought or run 
away without being stabbed in the back, but he grabbed the dead wood 
and threw it at the mounted knight: in fending it off, Sir Pedivere 
overbalanced, fell from his horse and promptly surrendered.

Lancelot got his weapons back and made Pedivere promise not to do it 
again; he left, following his wife. *

Before the start of this part of the game, in Camelot, Lancelot 
volunteered to help Lynet her rescue her Lady, who was beseiged in 
Castle Perilous by the Red Knight of the Red Launds. She showed him 
the way there, and was rude if he strayed. On the route: 

Lancelot met the Black Knight of the Black Launds, who challenged 
him. They fought until the Black Knight was defeated and yielded: 
Lancelot had a Y/N chance to spare him; killing the knight cost 
honour, but if spared the Knight clobbered Lancelot on the back of 
the head as he rode away laughing - costing honour and rude remarks 
from Lynet (see "scoring"). Then Lancelot met the Green Knight and 
events went the same way. 

Finally, Lancelot met the Red Knight and events went much the same 
(I hoped that the player had got fed up with being clonked on the 
head by now and refused to spare him.) If spared the knight rode off 
and Lancelot continued to the seige camp outside Dame Lyoness' 
castle and blew an elephant's horn to summon the commander (the 
presence of archers prevented him simply walking in). The real Red 
Knight explained that he had previously defeated a Round Table knight 
(the stakes being that the loser would serve the winner for a month) 
and made him fight on his behalf. The real Red Knight marched away 
with his army, not wanting to fight Lancelot, and left him to 
celebrate with, or grieve over, the Round Table knight. Lancelot 
also ended up with the horn. *

Lancelot followed a brachet to a decrepit manor, where he found the 
body of Sir Gilbert and a damosel who spoke out against his killer. 
A trail of blood led into the forest, where Lancelot found Sir 
Meliot, who was badly wounded, and a damosel who explained that 
he could only be cured by a cloth from the Chapel Perilous. 

Lancelot went there; thirty great knights threatened him, telling him 
to lay down his sword or die, in steadily more extreme terms. Had he 
done so, or attacked, Lancelot would have been killed. In the next 
room was Hellawes the Sorceress; she told Lancelot to put down his 
sword and kiss her, or never see Guenever again. Had he done so, he 
would have been captured. Lancelot ignored Hellawes and took the 
cloth, whereapon she and her knights vanished. 

Lancelot took the cloth back to Sir Meliot, touched it to his wounds 
and he was cured. *

* ORKNEY 

Castle of King Lot, Queen Morgause and her sons Gawain, Uwain, 
Gaheris, Gareth and Mordred. 

The Castle of Queen Morgause and King Lot was a single stone tower, 
like a lighthouse, with a single round room on each floor and a tight 
spiral staircase within the thick stone wall. It was intended for 
defense against raiding parties, rather than sustained attack, and 
any alarm resulted in the portcullis being dropped and the castle 
"sealed" from many turns. 

A guard stood outside the single door and, if anyone came in view, he 
would signal the portcullis to descend; standing just inside to block 
the way as it descended. (Lancelot got the option to jump back.) 

A beacon stood on a nearby hill, to alert the defenders of attack. 
When lit, the guard signalled the portcullis to descend and - without 
waiting for it to finish - ran up the hill path to find what was going 
on. Lancelot, assuming he was hiding in the heather near the tower, 
had just enough time to rush in beneath the descending door (though 
this blocked his escape). 

The ground floor of the tower was basically a stable, and the upper 
stories were filled with armed people, so Lancelot ignored the 
panicking residents and went down to the basement. He unbarred the 
prison holding a captured knight (and anyone left behind on previous, 
failed, rescue attempts), went into the storeroom next door and got 
everyone to help push a heavy treasure chest off the trapdoor there. 

Failure to escape in a fairly short period of time would have led to 
capture, once the inhabitants regrouped, but in fact Lancelot led 
everyone to freedom through a secret passage. *


                         PART 3 (GRAIL LANDS)
                         --------------------

Escaping after his affair with Guenever, Lancelot returned for the 
service at Pentecost, the arrival and knighting of Galahad and the 
following feast when the Round Table was complete for the first and 
only time. A damosel arrived from Nacien, revealing that Lancelot 
was no longer the best knight. Then the Holy Grail appeared in a 
vision; Gawain swore to see it again - and many other knights did 
likewise; the host paraded through the streets of Camelot and left 
through its east gate - Launcelot started part 3 in Vagon Castle. 

After solving moral dilemmas, heroically rescuing Galahad and going 
with him to strange lands aboard a magic barge, and proving virtuous, 
Lancelot reached Castle Carbonek and achieved the Grail. 

Whenever Lancelot first examined any cross in this part, a message 
was printed, saying how he knelt and prayed and saw the corresponding 
vision from Morte D'Arthur. On next meeting any hermit, the previous 
vision was explained. 
 
Seven deadly sins: Pride,Wrath,Envy,Lust,Gluttony,Avarice,Sloth.
Virtues: Faith,Hope,Charity,Justice,Fortitude,Prudence,Temperance.
Ten commandments.. thou shalt:
   1. have no other gods but me
   2. not make for yourself a graven image
   3. not take the name of the Lord your God in vain
   4. remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy
   5. honour your father and your mother
   6. not kill
   7. not commit adultery
   8. not steal
   9. not bear false witness against your neighbour
   10.not covet

Lancelot's sins were remembered and counted against him at the end. 
He could only find out what they were (i.e use "score") from Nacien 
the Hermit, who could forgive them once only so Launcelot could 
finish, though the score penalty remained. (One sin worthy of note 
concerns making the sign of the cross unnecessarily - i.e when no 
fiends were present - as this was treated  as a breach of commandment 
2 or 3. Exceptionally, the game was ended if he took the sign of God 
in vain too often.) 

    Launcelot started, all alone, in Vagon Castle. All manner of 
treasures and weapons were stacked in its hall. Unless Lancelot 
prayed at its altar, before leaving the castle, he was warned about 
forgetting something and given a y/n chance to change his mind (C2, 
being concerned with the Grail itself rather than God). 

Its exit led to a fork in the trackway, with a wide paved road through 
a gleaming arch on the left and a narrow track through a thicket of 
thorns on the right. A crown rested before a stone cross at the fork
(taking it: C8, theft). The paved road led to a fine church, where a 
"priest" offered Lancelot a sight of the grail, if he would hand over 
the crown as a token of service; he was penalised if he did so (C1, 
rejecting God), and the "priest" vanished laughing. The priest refused 
to let Lancelot pray unless he handed over the crown, but making the 
sign of the cross got rid of him. 

Lancelot then came to a knight who blocked the road and asked his 
name, saying that he would let anyone pass apart from Lancelot. Lying 
reduced Launcelot's score (C9); the truth led to a battle which 
Lancelot lost, though he was spared and allowed to pass. 

    A pavilion stood beside the road, and a damosel emerged to invite 
him inside. She wept if he refused (lack of charity, V3). On entry, 
the damosel offered Lancelot a plate of dainties: eating each made him 
feel stronger and, if he ate the lot, he falsely thought that his 
powers must be restored and that he was the best knight (S5, Gluttony). 
The damosel then invited Launcelot to her bedchamber (C7, adultery), 
but said she understood when he refused. If Lancelot made the sign of 
the cross, the pavilion turned upside down and everything vanished. 

Lancelot then came to a deep valley and a deep river, through which 
he had to cross. If Lancelot was carrying anything, an armed knight 
rode out, black as any bear, and smote him to earth, saying that no 
worldly knight could pass. Otherwise, he waved Lancelot on (as a clue, 
assorted penniless clerics walked past every now and then) into the 
wasteland beside the waters of Mortaise. 

    A stony cross stood in the wasteland; Lancelot dreamed that a sick 
knight was cured by the Holy Grail and was told to "withdraw from 
this holy place". Roads led in all directions, the main one to... 

Nacien had a hermitage atop a cliff in the wasteland. On first meeting 
Lancelot he blessed him, said that he could forgive his sins once, 
showed him a scroll which summarised his tasks, and gave him a chalice 
to help with his tasks. And, if Lancelot had had a recent dream, 
Nancien explained it. The first visit to Nacien's base, because a 
fiend pretending to Nacien accosted Lancelot, saying that he would 
have to cast himself and his innocent followers from the cliff unless 
Lancelot turned back (about 4 messages were involved and the fiend 
cunningly ran back up the climbing path each time, so he couldn't be 
got rid of by Lancelot crossing himself). If Lancelot did turn back, 
this indicated a lack of faith (V1); when he reached the top, Nacien 
explained the deception and when he reached the bottom, later, 
Lancelot saw no bodies.  

The second road passed a well, where sat a thirsty pilgrim - too faint 
to proceed and with no container to scoop water. If Lancelot tried to 
fill the Chalice, the water sank down the well and he failed. But he 
gave the Chalice to the Pilgrim and he could fill it OK (V3, Charity). 
The Pilgrim promptly left, returning the Chalice to Lancelot.  

Then this road led to a White Abbey. On a tomb was written that only 
the best knight in the world should open it. Lancelot lost merit for 
doing so. A foul fiend emerged; too powerful to kill in combat 
(Lancelot died if he tried this), but which fled if Galahad atacked 
(he was "protected by too many angels" for its power). Once the fiend 
had fled, the body of a false Christian man was revealed; Lancelot 
removed it and accepted the monks' offer to bury it elsewhere. A 
shield (made by Joseph of Arimithea and marked with a red cross of 
blood) stood in the main hall. Again, this was for the best knight 
and could only be carried by Galahad. 

The final road led to a forest, where Lancelot simultaneously came 
upon his brother, Sir Ector, who was naked and beaten by two knights, 
being transported one way, while a fair gentlewoman was being abducted 
in the opposite direction. Had he gone after Ector, the gentlewoman 
would have been abused and her kidnapper slain in vengeance by the 
time Lancelot got there. So, he rescued her first - defeating and 
sparing her captor - then went after Lionel, whose kidnappers released 
him without a fight and fled. (See P24 in morte2.txt for more?)

During the above, Galahad would occasionally be seen, riding about. 
But when Lancelot had tackled everything, he heard a warning voice 
and followed its directions to where Galahad had been captured by 
evil knights and was about to be burnt at the stake. Lancelot charged 
in and continued fighting, even at the risk of his own life. If he 
fled, Galahad wound have been killed and the Grail could not be 
achieved (Lancelot was told some time later). During the battle, 
Lancelot could not run away and he found that the various equivalents 
of RESTORE didn't work (evil laughter sounded if he tried them). In 
fact, when Lancelot was about to die bravely, the Lord intervened with 
bolts of lightning and set the enemy to flight - allowing the player 
to command Galahad, to get the shield and move the boat etc.
 
    A boat waited on the shore of the waters of Mortaise; it was 
needed to carry Launcelot to the more difficult problems of this part 
but, while it worked in the same way as the boat in part 2, Galahad 
was the only person worthy to direct it. Hence, Lancelot needed him. 
At first, the boat's sails were empty; but, when the horn was blown 
there, a wind sprang up to propel the craft. The boat contained a 
bed, sword (only useable by Galahad), three spindles (scenery) and a 
musical horn. 

Isle of Sand. A wall of fire blocked passage from the beach, but 
it could be extinguished if two people collaborated to throw water 
(filling their containers from the sea). The centre of the island 
was just one big sand dune - the only source of accessible sand 
(containers could hold water, salt water, mead or sand). 

Isle of Turnance. A fisherman revealed that a red and a black dragon 
lived here; they were vicious beasts and attacked everything on sight. 
Lancelot and Galahad each went to a dragon, then returned to the 
centre of the island. When the dragons met, they fought and destroyed 
each other. Thus the people of the island were freed (V4, justice) and 
gave Lancelot a cup of mead in thanks. 

    A gate stood upon a dark shore, that only Galahad and Lancelot 
could pass through - and Lancelot could only use if he were holy 
enough. A pavement led past a Glastonbury Thorn tree, through ranks 
of stones and to an antechapel. Here were the remaining Grail Knights 
(Bors and Percival) and a great key. Bors and Percival were prepared 
to help Lancelot, but refused to leave the antechapel. Likewise, 
Galahad refused to go beyond it, for it was not yet the time for 
these three to see the Grail. 

When the Key was taken, a Fire spirit leapt up from the torches set in 
the wall to defend it. This could be extinguished by thrown water, in 
which case a water spirit appeared. Sand would dry the water, and wind 
blow away the resulting sand spirit. If any spirit remained at the end 
of the turn, it retrieved the key.

Singing voices told Lancelot to have faith in God and proceed to find 
the Grail, so he unlocked the exit door from the antechamber and 
followed the path, through a dark valley, to a castle guarded by 
lions. The lions attacked, but missed. If Lancelot retaliated, he was 
chided for lack of faith (V1). Once in the castle beyond, Lancelot 
found a door behind which he knew was the Holy Grail (he could hear 
the singing and see the light) but, unless he was free of Sin, he 
could go no further. (If Lancelot was not free of sin, and he had no 
chance of further forgiveness through Nacien, the player was told). 
Anyway, once inside, the Quest ended in victory.  


                               SCORING 
                               ------- 

Scoring was in terms of honour, with bonusses for such things as 
rescuing knights or leading Elaine from her kettle, and penalties for 
striking from ambush (e.g the sleeping giant on Servage) and killing 
opponents who had already yielded.

The score was in the range -1000 to +1000 (0 to 2000 internally?), 
with the game being stopped if persistent deeds of infamy caused the 
lower limit to be reached. 

In addition, Lancelot's name was temporarily modified by each scoring 
event; losing the "Sir" from "Sir Lancelot" and adding a suffix, e.g 
"Lancelot the Dragon-slayer" or "Lancelot of Servage". 

To add atmosphere, if any follower(s) of Lancelot were present at an 
embarassing event for him, one of them was quite likely to laugh or 
make rude remarks. 

                                DEATH
                                ----- 

Lancelot was unbeatable in fair combat, but a there were a few traps 
which lead to his death or permanent capture. The first two times, 
Merlin appeared and rescued Lancelot (at the cost of 1 honour); the 
third time, he appeared but was forced to admit defeat. 

Because of Lancelot's exceptional prowess, there were several traps 
which would have proved fatal to anyone else, but where Lancelot had 
a last chance to "jump back". A neat example was the "see-saw trap", 
where people must use two exits simultaneously, to balance the floors 
of two passages beyond. E.g, one way of getting it wrong was:
Lancelot was at the junction, with identical doors to northeast and 
northwest. He could see Sir Fallguy. 
SIR FALLGUY, WAIT THEN GO NORTHWEST
Sir Fallguy nodded. 
NE
Lancelot went northeast and was in the east passage. 
The floor wobbled alarmingly! Did Lancelot jump back? YES
Phew! That was close. Lancelot was back at the junction. 
Lancelot heard a cry from the northwest, and what sounded like a 
falling body.

In this case, had Lancelot not jumped back, all would have been 
well. The reason for the example was to demonstrate that the option 
to jump back was not in the movement code, but in special case code 
after movement had taken place. It was probably a good idea to put 
it in the same code as detected the danger to Lancelot and which 
might well have gone on to kill him. 
 
                            LANCELOT ALONE 
                            -------------- 

Several sections of the game (e.g in Castles Chariot and Corbin) were 
basically solved by Lancelot acting alone. For example, he might have 
been taken prisoner and have to escape. In these cases, Lancelot's 
followers (if any) were either captured in another cell, or simply 
left to their own devices until he returned; obeying any orders that 
had already been given. 

                         HORSES & ARMOUR ETC. 
                         -------------------- 

It was assumed (as would be explained in the book) that all relevant 
people had horses, weapons etc at need; it would have been tedious 
to force the player to handle them explicitely. Horses, for example, 
were only mentioned as part of the text for movement: when travelling 
outside on land, people were described as riding; when going from 
outside to inside, they "dismounted" first, and when first moving 
about outside, having been dismounted, they mounted. Likewise, weapons 
and armour were mentioned in the text for combat. 

Examinining someone reported their armour and any horse etc. 

                           "ECHO LOCATIONS"
                           ----------------

To complement invisible objects and echo verbs, this game introduced 
"echo locations".. When Lancelot moved to one of these, its 
corresponding message was printed instead of the location desc, e.g: 
"Lancelot went north. He was amazed by the splendour of the northern 
part of the castle and wandered about for hours, exploring it all. 
Finally, having satisfied his curiosity, Lancelot returned south" 
(the location text being, ". He was amazed ... his curiosity,").  

As this example showed, the movement was reversed after the message 
had been printed, so that nobody could actually end up in an "echo 
location".

When an NPC entered an "echo location" they were likewise kicked out, 
e.g: "Elaine went north. She returned from the north. "   

The intention was to cope with the common situation where only part 
of a building was necessary for the game and where it would have 
literally been a "waste of space" to map the rest. 

                          RECRUITING PEOPLE 
                          ----------------- 

Lancelot couldn't command everybody (especially his socially 
superiors!), but could make use of freed knights and anyone else 
who specifically offered to help him. 

Note that freed knights automatically followed their liberator (ie 
Lancelot if present) to avoid the player needing to type this each 
time. They tried to leave, though, if Lancelot already had a lot of 
followers; otherwise, the small army would have been tedious. 