







Neil Scrimgeour                                              11/7/88 
125 Occupation Road
Corby
Northants NN17 1EG


Dear Neil, 

          I'm sorry about this, but we seem to have a serious problem 
with the gnome pictures. I quote from my letter of 24/6/88:          

"I'm determined to get a distinctive style for each game in future."

"..if you squeezed those buildings together and zoomed in (cf when 
photographing a group of people). Please try and make buildings look 
more like the examples supplied: over-large details (windows, doors, 
chimneys), big bricks in walls, a lack of absolutely straight lines, 
slightly rounded corners, and a tendency to lean against one another." 

"..Please have one last try at redoing the sketches."

          I'm not sure it was wise for you to bypass the stage of 
getting a new set of sketches agreed, and I can't see how the latest 
batch of pictures fit in with the instructions above.

In the circumstances, as we need to guarantee getting satisfactory 
pictures, I can't risk matters dragging on indefinitely and have 
briefed another artist to do them (nothing to do with the advert, 
which was for Level 9's new acade-style venture).  

Sorry, but we will not be needing you to do pictures for Gnome II. 

          To tidy up a couple of other matters: my apologies for not 
paying your previous invoice promptly (the problem was that your 
name does not appear anywhere on the invoice and my father had put 
it on one side to query at the next company meeting) and we will, in 
fact, be using an alternative version of the Elaine picture so Sandra 
does not need to worry. I'll send you a couple of copies of Lancelot 
when it is launched, so that you can see how things turned out. 

I regret the problems over Gnome II, which seem to be a matter of 
artistic style, and will contact you again should we need pictures 
in your style in the future. 


                         Best wishes,
 

                                     Pete Austin 
