









Level 9 Computing is a partnership of Pete, Nick and Mike Austin, 
started in 1981. We have been producing adventure games ever since, 
about half published by ourselves and the rest with a variety of 
other publishers. Level 9 currently consists of about 12 people. 

Our future plans are to publish adventures ourselves in the UK, 
four a year, but to look for joint ventures overseas. 


Level 9 are showing two new adventures at this PCW show (see the 
attached catalogue for prices etc): 

"Lancelot", published by Mandarin, tells the legends of King Arthur, 
the knights of the Round Table and their quest for the Holy Grail. 

Lancelot is as faithful as possible to the original stories and 
follows the life of Lancelot from his arrival at court to his 
achievement of the Holy Grail. 

It is possibly the only adventure in which the hero has affairs 
with two women, and a son by one of them; twenty years later meets 
up with the son to battle demons and fiends, proves himself worthy 
to see the holiest object in Christendom and ends as a Bishop. (In 
other words, it's not a Dungeons-and-Dragons rehash like almost 
everything else.. yippee!) 

Mandarin are kindly organising a prize contest for a #5,000 silver 
grail. Clues are in the game; please contact Mandarin for details. 

If you are reviewing Lancelot and would like a complete play 
sequence, please contact Pete Austin at Level 9. 


"Ingrid's Back", published by Level 9 in October, is the satirical 
sequel to "Gnome Ranger". 

It stars the gnomes of Little Moaning as they go about their busy 
lives. Fishing, drinking, sitting out in the rain, that sort of 
thing... But Jasper Quickbuck, insider-dealing lord of Ridley's 
Manor, plans to steamroller them. 

Anti-heroine Ingrid Bottomlow is back to stop his plans, with 
humorous results. 

"Ingrid's Back" os a very good game (we would say that..), but its 
main advance is in the characterisation of the gnomes. In most 
adventure games, people just stand there until you do something to 
trigger them off - but in "Ingrid's Back" it's actually fun to 
follow the other gnomes and watch as they go about their lives. 


                  Level 9 are on stand 3049
