





                                 



                  LEVEL 9'S LAST EVER ADVENTURE!           6/9/89 

Level 9 - authors of over 15 top selling adventure games since 
the firm's inception in 1981 - today announced that their latest 
adventure release, Scapeghost, is to be the last. 

"People have been declaring the death of the adventure market 
for years," said designer Pete Austin, "so Scapeghost is an 
appropriate final release. It comes from beyond the grave and 
you play a ghost."


    Controlling an ex-cop (in-spectre Alan Chance) who was disposed 
of when he found out too much, then framed for crimes he didn't 
commit, you find yourself reincarnated in your old haunts with just 
three nights to clear your name and get revenge on the real 
villains. 

Even with your old detective skills, your growing psychic powers, 
and the help of other spirits, unravelling the mystery isn't going 
to be easy. But fortunately the sophisticated Level 9 parser, with 
advanced features like go to, find and undo, will give you at 
least the ghost of a chance! 

Featuring 3 parts and high quality graphics on disk, Scapeghost is 
available at the PC show and by mail order from Level 9, PO Box 39, 
Avon BS24 9UR. Or credit card on 0934 814450. The price is #19.95 
for 16-bit and 3" disks, and #14.95 for 8-bit. 

(The full list is Amiga,ST,IBM PC and PCW/CPC/+3 disk at #19.95. 
And Spectrum tape, C64 tape or disk, Atari 8-bit tape or disk, and 
BBC/Master disk at #14.95). 


    After Scapeghost, Level 9 will concentrate on producing high 
quality original games and conversions using their revolutionary 
"wHolly Universal Games Engine" for Amiga, ST, IBM PC and Mac. 

"H.U.G.E is a good name for the new Level 9 system," commented 
Managing Director Mike Austin, "as it includes 165,000 lines of 
code and has taken 10 man years to develop. It represents a number 
of major advances for games software, and we are confident that 
the acclaim that Level 9 have received in the past for our high 
quality adventures will be continued in the more arcade-orientated 
environment of H.U.G.E". 

Level 9 have already been commissioned to write a number of games 
using the system by a major US publisher, and negotiations with 
further companies are in progress. 



            PS: when closely printed, the H.U.G.E 
          source is a foot thick and weighs 30 pounds.  

