     DOCTOR WHO DESIGN. Copyright (C) Level 9 Computing: 17/11/87

The game is an illustrated adventure trilogy, potentially available on 
about 12 formats and with the same state-of-the-art features as our 
previous game, "Gnome Ranger" (see attached reviews etc).
 
This design is inevitably just an outline; a full design would take 
about a month. However, I already like the idea enough to go ahead 
with it; if necessary without the Doctor Who connection. - Pete.

Part 1. 

The Doctor has left his latest assistant and is travelling on holiday, 
when disaster strikes. He collapses, metamorphosing into his next 
incarnation, and the Tardis crashes.

The Doctor awakes disorientated at the start of the game. He explores 
the Tardis, trying to remember its functions, and discovers that it's 
damaged and can only be mended with a mysterious rare crystal found on 
just one planet in the universe.

The Tardis has landed in a magnificent treasure chamber, ancient-Egypt 
style (this theme will be continued in all relevant graphics). On 
further investigation, the chamber turns out to be the hold of a 
hi-tech funeral barge, carrying the body of its single passenger on a 
pre-programmed course into the sun.

The Doctor rapidly realises that the passenger is not really dead; 
just drugged. She was an important advisor in the local government and 
has been disposed of by an infiltrating sect. The doctor cures "Cleo", 
and she accompanies him for the rest of the game.

The remainder of part 1 involves the Doctor in using tools and parts 
from the Tardis to modify the barge's controls and change its course 
to a stable orbit. But, no sooner is this achieved, and Cleo and the 
Doctor are safe, than police spacecraft board and arrest them for an 
alleged attempt to loot the barge's treasure. They prepare to execute 
our heroes..

Part 2. 

Cleo reveals her badge of office and the police decide they had better 
consult a higher authority before acting. They take Cleo and the 
Doctor to New Egypt (coincidentally, this is the very place where the 
Tardis' crystal can be found) and locked them up as prisoners.

(New Egypt is a colony planet in Level 9's "Future Space" mythos. The 
crew of the original colony starship refused to relinquish power to 
the intended colonist, and rule on as an immortal elite in a hi-tech 
recreation of ancient Egypt.)

The Doctor escapes from prison and uses the ventilation system to 
crawl through the city and find what has happened. 

Cleo's replacement is a strange Machiavellian figure, who seems to 
have taken control of the regime. Now, the government's policies 
ignore the needs of the bulk of the population and seem to be 
concentrating on building mysterious factories. 

The new Advisor is invulnerable to conventional attack, but leaves 
secretly every night, going to a hidden base on the edge of the city. 
It turns out that she is one of an invading force of robots.

The doctor builds a detector to discover exactly which officials have 
been replaced by robots and surrenders himself, after giving orders 
to Cleo. When the regime gathers for the Doctor's trial, she uses a 
cunning device to neutralise the robots.

But, as the robot leader slows into immobility, it gloats that the 
Doctor's success will be only temporary, because even now the city is 
under attack...

Part 3

The first wave of robot attackers is beaten off by the City's defences 
and the Doctor recognises what is going on.

(Mankind's expansion into space was l mine, so 
the Doctor travels overland (flight being too dangerous), deactivates 
the security systems, dodges Mutec patrols and reprograms the central 
computer to stop the invasion.

The game ends with the Doctor picking up a Crystal and being helped to 
leave in the Tardis.ееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееееl mine, so 
the Doctor travels overland (flight being too dangerous), deactivates 
the security systems, dodges Mutec patrols and reprograms the central 
computer to stop the invasion.

The game ends with the Doctor picking up a Crystal and being helped to 
leave in the Tardis.