LANCELOT BOOKLET. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9 
--------------------------------------------


King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table 
----------------------------------------------


The Birth of a King 
------------------- 

In the days when Uther Pendragon was King of all England, the 
mighty Duke of Tintagel stood out against him and for a long time 
held war against the king. 

After many battles, Uther sent for the Duke, that they might talk of 
peace. But he also charged him to bring his wife, Igraine, for Uther 
had heard that she was most fair. And when the Duke and his wife 
were with Uther, the king declared his love to her. Igraine was 
much distressed and warned the Duke her husband that they should 
flee, for the king surely intended her dishonour.

After they had departed secretly, Uther was wonderly wroth, both 
for pure anger and great love of fair Igraine.

The Duke heard warning of this, and anon he made provision for a 
long siege. He set Igraine in Tintagel Castle, the which he strongly 
fortified, while he set out for Castle Terrabil. Ere long, Uther's 
pavilions and knights surrounded Terrabil and a bitter battle began. 

But Uther was sick with his love, and remained listless in his 
tent, so that his knights were greatly worried. In hope of finding 
a cure for the king, one of his men set out to seek Merlin, a 
wizard well renowned for his knowledge of ancient crafts and 
remedies. And Merlin said that he would help Uther, if Uther would 
be sworn to reward Merlin in his turn. The noble knight assented 
that Merlin should have whatever he desired if he could make Uther 
whole again.

Merlin rode to Uther's pavilion, where he told the king that Uther 
might spend the night with Igraine, for by Merlin's magic, he would 
appear to her in the likeness of her husband. In return, Uther must 
deliver any child, born of their union, for the magician to raise.

Uther could not hold his patience, and rode out with his party for 
Tintagel at once. The Duke espied Uther's knights riding hard, as 
if in retreat, and he left his Terrabil fortress to pursue in all 
haste. On the field, he met with Uther's remaining men, and was 
himself slain ere the king came to the castle of Tintagel. And so, 
as Uther lay with Igraine, she was already a widow.

Igraine thought her lover that night was her husband; but when she 
heard tell of the Duke's death she marvelled who that knight who 
lay with her might be. Even when she assented unto marriage with 
Uther, to unite their two houses, he did not tell her.

And when the child was born, Merlin came, as he had told Uther he 
would, to take the baby away, reassuring the father he would be 
well-nourished.

But Uther was not able to spend a long and happy life with Igraine. 
Within two years he had fallen sick of a great malady and died, to 
Igraine's great sorrow, for she had learned to love him. 

The rule of the kingdom fell into jeopardy, for there was no known 
heir. Many lords made claim to the throne, and fought bitterly for 
the right to reign, but none could take the kingdom by just cause.



The Sword in the Stone 
---------------------- 

After years of great feuding, Merlin went to the Archbishop of 
Canterbury and counselled him that he would find the right-born 
king. All the lords of the realm and all the gentlemen of arms were 
summoned to London for a New Year's Day tournament, where the new 
ruler would be revealed. 

Sir Ector, his son Kay and his adopted son Arthur werigh altar, 
he espied, to his joy, a sword. It was stuck through an anvil, set 
upon a wide marble stone, and glittered in the winter sunlight.

"I will take that sword," Arthur decided. "My brother Sir Kay shall 
not be without a sword today of all days". He grasped it firmly and 
found that it came easily out of the anvil. Hurrying after his 
party, he never noticed the words that were written in gold about 
the sword.

But when Arthur delivered the sword to Kay, his brother turned 
quite pale.igh altar, 
he espied, to his joy, a sword. It was stuck through an anvil, set 
upon a wide marble stone, and glittered in the winter sunlight.

"I will take that sword," Arthur decided. "My brother Sir Kay shall 
not be without a sword today of all days". He grasped it firmly and 
found that it came easily out of the anvil. Hurrying after his 
party, he never noticed the words that were written in gold about 
the sword.

But when Arthur delivered the sword to Kay, his brother turned 
quite pale. For Kay too had seen the sword in the stone in the 
churchyard, but he had also seen what Arthur had not, the 
lettering around it, which read, "WHOSO PULLETH OUT THIS SWORD OF 
THIS STONE AND ANVIL, IS RIGHTWISE KING BORN OF ALL ENGLAND".

A small smile appeared on Kay's face as he took the sword from 
Arthur, and so he rode to find Sir Ector. "Look, father," he cried. 
"I have the sword from the stone. I must now be King of all 
England."

Sir Ector was no fool. He took both Kay and Arthur back to the 
churchyard, and he made Kay swear upon a book how he had come by 
the sword. 

Kay faltered. "My brother Arthur brought it to me", he said. Ector 
turned to his adopted son, and Arthur explained how he had taken 
it. Then Ector replaced the sword in the anvil and told Arthur to 
pull it out again. 

"There is no great skill to it, " said Arthur airily, and lifted it 
smoothly and cleanly out of the anvil. 

Then Ector and Kay both tried pulling the sword from the stone for 
themselves, with all their might, but it would not move. When the 
two elder men learned full well that the sword would give only for 
Arthur, they both knelt down to the earth before him. 

Arthur was greatly dismayed. "My own father and brother!" he 
exclaimed. "Why do ye kneel before me?"

"Nay, Arthur, I am not your father, nor of your blood" said Sir 
Ector gently, and for the first time he told him how Merlin had 
delivered him to Sir Ector as a newborn baby, and charged him to 
nourish Arthur as his own.

At Pentecost, young Arthur was crowned at Carleon and took on the 
heavy duties of King of all England.



Excalibur 
--------- 

The early years of Arthur's reign were not easy. Many lords and 
kings had no joy of him because of his youth and lowly upbringing
and he spent much time in bloody battles, defending his right to 
the throne. Merlin was ever nearby to help him when he was on the 
brink of defeat, and after long years, Arthur finally vanquished 
most of the enemy lords.

Arthur fathered two children, Borre and Mordred, while still a 
young man. Mordred's mother was Margawse, wife of King Lot of 
Orkney and the daughter of Igraine and the Duke of Tintagel. 
Though none could know but Merlin, this meant she was Arthur's 
half-sister, for which Merlin blamed the king. 

"God will not forgive your foul deed," the soothsayer warned. "You 
have lain by your sister and on her ye have gotten a child, born on 
May day, that shall destroy you and all the knights of your realm."

Sore afraid at Merlin's words, Arthur sent for all the children 
born on May day, and he set them adrift in a ship. The ship was 
wrecked and the most part of the children perished, but Mordred was 
washed up alive on a beach, and raised by a good man.

Arthur's battles were long and bloody and oft there was danger that 
he might be slain, so Merlin thought that Arthur should have his 
own special sword. He took Arthur on a journey to a wide and still 
lake, and, in the middle of the waters, an arm, clothed in rich 
samite silk, rose from the water. The hand was clasping a fair 
sword. 

"This is the sword that shall be yours," Merlin told Arthur. "The 
Lady of the Lake will come to you, and ye must speak fair to her to 
get the sword. And anon indeed the Lady told Arthur to row out in a 
barge to the centre of the lake to take the sword and its scabbard. 

When he returned to the shore, he looked on his new sword and liked 
it passing well. Merlin asked him, "Which do you like better - the 
sword or the scabbard?"

Arthur considered. "The sword," he replied. 

Merlin looked at him with impatience. "Ye are still so unwise," he 
said with annoyance. "The scabbard is worth ten of the sword. While 
ye have the scabbard with ye, ye will never lose blood however 
sorely wounded ye may be."



Guenever 
-------- 

When Arthur first saw Guenever, daughter of King Leodegrance of 
Camelerd, he knew straightway that he wished to marry her. Arthur 
thought her the most valiant and fair as his wife,  
"I warn you that she will be loved by Lancelot du Lake, and she will 
love him back." 

But Arthur's mind was set fast on his choice, and so anon Merlin 
went forth to King Leodegrance to tell him that King Arthur wanted 
his daughter for his wife.

Leodegrance, to be sure, was overjoyed. "That is the best tidings 
that ever I heard," he cried. "And I shall send Arthur a gift, 
which might please him more than lands, for he has lands enough. 
I shall give him the Table Round, whic as his wife,  
"I warn you that she will be loved by Lancelot du Lake, and she will 
love him back." 

But Arthur's mind was set fast on his choice, and so anon Merlin 
went forth to King Leodegrance to tell him that King Arthur wanted 
his daughter for his wife.

Leodegrance, to be sure, was overjoyed. "That is the best tidings 
that ever I heard," he cried. "And I shall send Arthur a gift, 
which might please him more than lands, for he has lands enough. 
I shall give him the Table Round, which was given to me by Uther 
Pendragon. The Table will seat a hundred and fifty knights when it 
is full, and I will myself send a hundred good knights."

Leodegrance was right. The gift of a hundred knights and the Table 
Round pleased Arthur far greater than land, and he sent out Merlin 
to find fifty accomplished knights to complete the number, the 
while he made preparations for the royallest wedding he could 
devise. But Merlin could only find forty eight knights of enough 
prowess to grace the Table Round, and so there were two empty seats.

Then Merlin, by his magic craft, made each of the names of the
knights appear in gold lettering in their places at the table, and 
in just two places was there no name.

As the knights came to Camelot, where the King was wedded unto 
Guenever, Arthur set out them their duties as Knights of the Table 
Round. He charged them never to commit treason or murder, never to 
be cruel, never to enter into battle for a wrongful reason 
whatsoever the reward, but ever to grant mercy when it was asked 
for, and ever to help ladies, whether gentlewomen or damosels, 
whenever succour was needed. And every Knight was sworn to this 
oath and every year at Pentecost they affirmed it again.



Merlin and Nimue 
---------------- 

For all that he was a magician and a soothsayer, Merlin fell in 
love with one of the ladies of the lake, called Nimue. He became 
besotted upon her and could not bear to be away from her, and she 
kept in his company until he had taught her all manner of things 
she desired to know of his magic crafts.

Merlin also knew that despite all his magic, he would not live 
long in the earthly world, and ere he was put in the ground he told 
Arthur many prophecies that would befall the young king. He warned 
him to keep always his sword and scabbard with him, and he told him 
of the end of his reign and of the last days of the Table Round.

Soon afterward Nimue departed from the court, and Merlin went with 
her. He followed her wheresoever she went, and within a while 
Nimue began to be weary of him. 

Then one day Merlin showed her a rock, inside which were marvels 
wrought by enchantment. Nimue tricked Merlin by subtlety and made 
him go underneath the rock, to tell her of the marvels, and then, 
by use of the crafts which he had taught her, she enclosed the rock. 

Merlin was not harmed, and spoke happily enough to passing knights, 
but, no matter what charms Merlin practised to assay to open up the 
rock, he remained trapped.



Sir Lancelot du Lake 
-------------------- 

As King Arthur's reign drew on, and the deeds of the Knights of the 
Table Round became ever more renowned throughout the land, so many 
knights came to the tournaments and jousts. Some knights who came 
oft improved their prowess so that they surpassed most of their 
fellows, but none more so than Lancelot du Lake. Never in any of 
his fights was he beaten, unless it were by trickery, and he was 
the knight who was admired most of all by the people after Arthur. 
And because of his excellence, Queen Guenever favoured him above 
all other knights, and he too favoured her, and many of his great 
knightly deeds were done for love of Guenever.

Sir Lancelot was riding in Corbin, when he saw the fairest tower he 
had ever seen. Inside was a lady, enchanted to remain in scalding 
water until the best knight in the world should take her hand.  
Launcelot rescued her; she thanked him and he thought she was the 
fairest lady in the world, apart from Guenever. 

Lancelot slew a fiendly dragon nearby, then they rode to Carbonek, 
castle of Elaine's father, King Pelles. 

At the celebratory feast, a damosel came into the hall, carrying a 
golden vessel, which shone richly with a pure and dazzling light.
King Pelles knelt in front of the vessel, and prayed devoutly 
before it, and all the company did the same after him. Lancelot 
marvelled much at this and asked wonderingly what this apparition 
meant.

"This vessel is the richest tt the child should be named Galahad; that he 
would become the best of all knights, surpassing even his father; 
and that he would be worthy of the Holy Grail. Yet how could it be 
done, fair though Elaine was, when every man knew that Lancelot 
kept himself only for love of the Queen Guenever?

Then Dame Brisen, one of the greatest enchantresses that lived at 
the time, came unto Pelles, and told him that she could work this 
thing by using her crafts.

Lancelot was given wine, the which had Brist the child should be named Galahad; that he 
would become the best of all knights, surpassing even his father; 
and that he would be worthy of the Holy Grail. Yet how could it be 
done, fair though Elaine was, when every man knew that Lancelot 
kept himself only for love of the Queen Guenever?

Then Dame Brisen, one of the greatest enchantresses that lived at 
the time, came unto Pelles, and told him that she could work this 
thing by using her crafts.

Lancelot was given wine, the which had Brisen infused with potion 
to make him blinded with lust, and when he was taken unto Elaine's 
chamber, he thought that she was Guenever, and lay with her until 
morning.

Elaine knew well that the child she carried from that night was 
born to be the noblest knight in the world, and when he was born, 
she christened him Galahad, and kept him well and nourished him. 
But Lancelot was shamed by the trickery, and left the castle that 
same morning to continue his travels.

Some months after, Arthur decreed that a feast be held.

Elaine deemed it right that she should attend the feast and bring 
the baby Galahad with her. She came with her servant Dame Brisen, 
and a retinue of twenty knights, and was so richly attired that all 
of Camelot agreed she was the fairest lady ever seen in that court. 
All, that is, save Lancelot, for fear of Guenever's fury.

Elaine was heavy of heart that Lancelot would not speak kindly to 
her, nor look at her, and went unto Brisen for advice. The 
enchantress assented to work her special powers so that Elaine 
might lie again with Lancelot that night.

When the court had retired, Guenever commanded Elaine to sleep in a 
chamber near her own, and she bad Lancelot to come unto her in the 
night. "Or else I am sure", chided Guenever, "ye will go to your 
lady Elaine's bed, for have you not gat a son of her?" 

But Brisen's enchantments were stronger than Lancelot's promises, 
and she came to Lancelot in the likeness of one of Guenever's 
maidens, and led him unto Elaine's chamber instead of Guenever's. 
Lancelot thought that it was Guenever he held in his arms, for so 
Brisen had devised it.

Then Guenever sent her servant to summon Lancelot to her, but the 
servant came to the Queen and said that she had found Lancelot's 
bed cold and empty. The Queen went nigh out of her wits with 
wondering where he was. She was not long in doubt, for Lancelot had 
the habit of talking in his sleep, and anon through the walls, she 
could hear his voice in Elaine's room.

Then was Guenever nigh mad with anger and with pain. She knew not 
what to do, but then she coughed so loudly that Lancelot awoke, 
and he heard her cough, and wist that it was Guenever. Then he knew 
too that he lay not with his queen as he had thought and ran out of 
Elaine's chamber, only to meet a white-faced Guenever in the 
passageway. 

"Thou false traitor knight!" she cried. "Never more wilt thou abide 
in my court; never will I let thee come into my sight again!"

Lancelot could not bear the anger of her words and, filled with 
shame and the loss of his love, he leapt from the castle window.

Lancelot ran mad in the forests, sometimes tended by hermits and 
village folk, more often living off berries and strange plants. 
Only after many years did he return to King Arthur's court.



The Coming of the Holy Grail 
---------------------------- 

Each year, the Knights of the Table Round came unto Camelot for the 
high feast of Pentecost, to relate their deeds and the marvels they 
had seen. But still the Table was not complete, for the last place, 
the Seige Perilous, was not filled. 

Then one year the knights had found, according to the custom, that 
their names were written about the Table Round in gold lettering, 
but this time there were new words written above the empty Siege 
Perilous. "FOUR HUNDRED WINTERS AND FOUR AND FIFTY ACCOMPLISHED 
AFTER THE PASSION OF OUR LORD JESU CHRIST OUGHT THIS SIEGE TO BE 
FULFILLED".

"It seemeth me," said Sir Lancelot who had accounted the time 
between the birth of Christ unto that day itself, "This siege ought 
to be fulfilled this very day, for this is the feast of Pentecost 
after the four hundred and four and fifty year." And the other 
knights agreed, and they ordained to cover the Siege Perilous with 
a silken cloth, so that the letters could not be seen until the 
rightful knight came unto the Table.  

As they set themselves in their own places at the table the next 
night to be served their feast, an old mold knight set his young charge surely in that seat, and 
departed, so that the boy was in the centre of the others' looks. 
Many marvelled that one so young did dare sit in that siege, but 
Lancelot knew him as his own son, and his heart swelled up with 
pride. 

The next day, King Arthur took Galahad to a lake near Camelot, 
where the court had found a sword set into a stone in a lake. This 
sword was inscribed with lettering, which read that only the best 
knight in the world could pull the sworold knight set his young charge surely in that seat, and 
departed, so that the boy was in the centre of the others' looks. 
Many marvelled that one so young did dare sit in that siege, but 
Lancelot knew him as his own son, and his heart swelled up with 
pride. 

The next day, King Arthur took Galahad to a lake near Camelot, 
where the court had found a sword set into a stone in a lake. This 
sword was inscribed with lettering, which read that only the best 
knight in the world could pull the sword clear. 

Now, many thought that this knight must surely be Sir Lancelot, 
but Lancelot had remembered the sins of his love for the Queen, 
and had said he was unworthy to try the sword. Sir Gawain and Sir 
Percival were both knights of great renown, but when they tried to 
lift the sword, it would not move. Now Arthur was sure that Galahad 
was the rightful owner of the sword, and so it was, for Galahad 
lifted it cleanly and easily, and it fitted perfectly into his 
empty scabbard. 

Then Arthur organised a great jousting tournament, that Galahad 
might test his skill against the other knights. And Galahad 
acquitted himself superbly, and many good knights of the Table 
Round were unhorsed by the young man, save two whom he did not 
fight, Lancelot and Sir Percival.

That evening the knights were again come unto the hall in Camelot 
for their supper, every man in his place at the Table Round, and 
this time there were no empty seats. And scarcely had they sat 
down, when there was a great cracking and a crying of thunder that 
shook the very walls of Camelot, and in the midst of this clamour 
a great burst of light flooded into the hall, like a sunbeam that 
was seven times clearer than daylight. Then all the knights felt 
themselves to be filled with the grace of the Holy Ghost. They 
beheld one another to be fairer than ever they were before, and 
they were struck dumb by the brilliance of the light.

Then came into the hall a golden centre to this light, and it was 
the Holy Grail, covered in a cloth of white samite, so that none 
could see the vessel underneath. And with the Grail came all manner 
of meat and drink that the knights loved best. 

As the Holy Grail crossed over the length of the hall it vanished 
as suddenly as it had come, and in the sudden emptiness of the hall 
after its passing, the knights all burst into voice at once.

Sir Gawain, ever impetuous, leapt to his feet and spoke unto the 
company. "One thing has beguiled us this evening," he cried. "We 
could not see the Holy Grail because it was so preciously covered. 
And I will vow here and now, that tomorrow without delay, I will go 
out in quest of the Holy Grail. I will labour for a year and a day, 
or longer if needs be, and I shall not rest until I have seen the 
Grail more openly than it has been seen here."

The other knights were greatly inspired by this and ere Gawain had 
sat down, each of them had risen and made vows such as he had done. 
And as they were rejoicing and making great plans for their quest, 
only Arthur was still and silent. 

For Arthur remembered the prophecies and teaching of the soothsayer 
Merlin, and he knew that many of his knights would never return, 
and the Table Round would never be restored.



The Quest for the Holy Grail 
---------------------------- 

The quest for the Holy Grail continued for many years, and all the 
knights who set out to seek the Holy vessel had many marvellous 
adventures, but none more than Sir Lancelot who was to see the Grail 
at Castle Carbonek, or Galahad whose destiny was to fulfil the 
quest.

Lancelot rode hard for several days, until he came unto an old 
chapel, where he thought to find himself rest. He tried to enter 
therein, but could only reach the altar, richly arrayed in silk and 
with six great candles set into a fair silver candlestick. He could 
find no entry to the chapel itself and at last, tired and dismayed, 
laid himself to sleep on his shield at a stony cross outside.

He was half wakened some time after when two fair white palfreys 
rode up to the cross. The palfreys bore a litter which carried a 
sick knight, that moaned in pain for the Holy Grail to come to heal 
him.

Lancelot stirred, still half asleep, for it seemed to him that he 
could not rise into wakefulness, and he espied the candlestick from 
the altar carry itself, as if floating, unto the cross. It was 
followed by a silver table, and the shining holy vessel of the 
Holy Grail, although Lancelot could see none that was, a voice came to him, and told him to 
withdraw from the holy place in which he had been sleeping, for he 
was unworthy.

Lancelot was sore unhappy and wept at these words, and the more 
unhappy still when he discovered that his horse and helm and sword 
had been taken away by the healed knight, yet he knew well the 
message. "My sin and wickedness have brought me unto great 
dishonour. When I sought worldly adventures and worldly desires, I 
achieved them. Now I have taken up a holy adventure ans, a voice came to him, and told him to 
withdraw from the holy place in which he had been sleeping, for he 
was unworthy.

Lancelot was sore unhappy and wept at these words, and the more 
unhappy still when he discovered that his horse and helm and sword 
had been taken away by the healed knight, yet he knew well the 
message. "My sin and wickedness have brought me unto great 
dishonour. When I sought worldly adventures and worldly desires, I 
achieved them. Now I have taken up a holy adventure and my old sin 
has come back to shame me, so that I have no power when holy blood 
appears before me." 

With much sorrow, Lancelot departed from the cross on foot and 
went unto a hermitage where the hermit would hear his confession. 
The hermit counselled Lancelot that his shame in God's eyes had to 
do with his sinful love for Guenever, and that he should forswear 
his lust for her. And Lancelot fully repented of his earthly sins, 
and with the hermit's blessing set out to start his quest afresh.

After many months, Lancelot came unto the water of Mortaise, where 
he laid down to rest and a vision came to him in his sleep, which 
told him to enter the first ship that he could find. Lancelot 
arose and went to the strand where he found a ship without either 
sail or oar and he entered and a great feeling of peace and joy 
overwhelmed him, and he remained with the ship for over a month.

Then one day, somewhat weary of the small ship, he was sitting on 
the shore when he heard a thundering of hooves, and a most seemly 
looking knight on a fair horse galloped up to the shore. He 
dismounted and taking his saddle and bridle with him, went straight 
into the ship.

Lancelot followed, curious about this self-assured young man, and 
made himself known to the young man, whereupon the knight revealed 
that he was Sir Galahad, Lancelot's own son. There was much 
rejoicing between them as the two embraced, and told each other of 
their adventures.

Galahad had ridden from Camelot into strange lands which he knew 
not. Many adventures befell him and always he was successful in his 
endeavors and gained much in knightly experience. He had defeated 
many knights in fair combat, he had given support to the defenders 
in a great siege at a castle, and with their comrades Sir Bors and 
Sir Percival, he had been set adrift to sea in a boat which had 
beached them in the marches of Scotland, there to do battle with 
many knights who had challenged them. 

Lancelot made great joy to hear his tales. His own quest had been 
tortuous and hard, with little success and he took much pride in 
his son. For a full six months, Lancelot and Galahad voyaged 
together in that boat, encountering many perilous adventures.

But never did they come near the Holy Grail, that was the true 
nature of their quest and so Galahad then left the ship to seek the 
vessel as he was ordained.

The did Sir Lancelot make much sorrow, for he was alone and 
downhearted, but he prayed daily to God that he might still see 
some tidings of the Holy Grail. The ship carried him over the sea, 
he knew not whereto, but trusted it to steer him safely.

After a month at sea, the ship beached at midnight beside a fine 
castle. A postern opened out towards the sea and a voice bade 
Lancelot to enter in. Anon, Lancelot armed himself and went to the 
gate, for here, so he thought, might at last be his adventure.

As he neared the castle, Lancelot saw two lions on guard. He drew
his sword, but it was smitten from his hand and a voice chided his 
evil faith, that he put more trust in weapons than in his Maker. 

He entered the castle without further challenge, but inside he could 
find no door or gate which would open. But behind one door he could 
hear sweet and reverent singing, and he knew full well that the Holy 
Grail was in that room. Lancelot fell to his knees and prayed to God 
to show him at least some part of the Grail.

He looked up from his prayers and was filled with awe to see the 
chamber door swing slowly open. From inside shone out a great 
light, that was the clearest, purest light Lancelot had ever seen. 

Lancelot looked up and into the chamber, and there was the silver 
table, and the Holy Grail covered in red samite and all the ornaments 
of an altar, and a priest who seemed to celebrate mass. Then Lancelot 
could not bear to stay outside, and taking a deep breath, he strode 
into the room where the Grail was.

As Lancelot reached out to touch the Grail, a scorching wind threw 
him doe, Galahad, since departing from the ship, had many further 
adventures before he met again with Sir Percival and Sir Bors. The 
three of them then rode together until they came to the Castle 
Carbonek. When they entered within, King Pelles was full glad to see 
them, for he knew that now the quest for the Grail would be achieved.

King Pelles, his son Eliazar and the three Grail knights sat down 
to dinner, but before they could eat, a voice came them. "There are 
two among you that are not in the e, Galahad, since departing from the ship, had many further 
adventures before he met again with Sir Percival and Sir Bors. The 
three of them then rode together until they came to the Castle 
Carbonek. When they entered within, King Pelles was full glad to see 
them, for he knew that now the quest for the Grail would be achieved.

King Pelles, his son Eliazar and the three Grail knights sat down 
to dinner, but before they could eat, a voice came them. "There are 
two among you that are not in the quest for the Holy Grail, and 
therefore you both should depart."

King Pelles stood up. The moment had come, and with a single look 
at Galahad he and his son slipped away. Scarce had they gone, when 
a man and four angels appeared before the knights. The angels set 
the man down before a table of silver and on the table the Holy 
Grail appeared. The man, who was dressed as a bishop, set about the 
ritual of the celebrating of mass. He kissed Galahad and bade 
Galahad kiss his fellow knights, which he did and then the bishop 
vanished away.

The three knights sat at the table in full dread of what might next 
happen. They looked up and saw a man come out of the holy vessel, a 
man with open wounds bleeding freely, as did those of Jesus Christ, 
and he offered the holy vessel to Galahad. Galahad knelt and 
received his Saviour, and Our Lord then told Galahad that he must 
depart with Bors and Percival the next morning to the sea, where he 
would find a ship ready and waiting for him.

On the morrow, the three knights set off, and after three days came 
to a rivage where they found a ship waiting for them. On board the 
ship they found a table of silver and the Holy Grail covered in a 
cloth of red samite. The three knelt down and prayed with much 
reverence.

The ship took them across the water to the city of Sarras. They 
disembarked and taking the table of silver went into the city, 
where they remained for a full twelvemonth. On that day at the 
year's end, the man in the likeness of a bishop came to Galahad 
and Bors and Percival and he had the Holy Grail with him. They 
celebrated mass, and the man revealed himself to the knights as 
Joseph, son of Joseph of Arimathea, and now Galahad knew that his 
time on earth was near an end.

Galahad kneeled before the table which held the Holy vessel and 
made his prayers, and as he did so, his soul departed quickly and 
quietly to Jesus Christ. The watching Percival and Bors perceived a 
great multitude of angels take it up to heaven. They saw too that a 
great hand came down and took the Vessel and bore that up to heaven 
as well. And this was the last that any earthly man saw of the 
Holy Grail.



The Death of Arthur 
------------------- 

When the Holy Grail had been achieved and that part of the knights 
that still lived had come back unto the Table Round, it seemed that 
the kingdom would be as great as it had been before. 

But Sir Lancelot soon forgot his repentance and his vows of the 
quest and soon he began to resort unto Queen Guenever again, and 
truly the love that was between them was so great that they spent 
many hours together privily.

Arthur was told, but he wished only for peace, and would not believe 
unless Sir Lancelot was taken with the deed. So Agravain and Mordred, 
who hated Lancelot, lay in wait with twelve knights and trapped him 
in the Queen's chamber. 

Though he had none armour, shield, sword nor spear, Lancelot fought 
free and escaped, slaying all but Mordred, who fled to the king. 
Guenever was sentenced to the fire, but Lancelot returned to rescue 
her and the twain left Logris for Lancelot's lands in France. 

For himself, Arthur desired only peace with Lancelot, for he had 
loved him well in earlier days. But Arthur listened to the counsel 
of Gawain, who was his nephew. And Gawain was mad for vengeance, for 
Lancelot had slain his bretheren in the rescue.

So Arthur took his army to France, leaving Sir Mordred to rule 
England in his absence, for Sir Mordred was his own natural son. And 
Arthur also put his wife Queen Guenever under Mordred's governance.

All the while Arthur was waging battle in France, Mordred made 
mischief at home. He forged letters the which he said had been 
sent from France, telling of Arthur's death in battle, and was 
himself crowned at Canterbury.

Next Mordred announced his plan to take Guenever as his wife. The 
Queen was passing heavy, but she hid her heart and agreed to the 
wedding. Mordred trusted Guenever well and gave hated to Salisbury.

The final battle was assigned for Salisbury on the day after Trinity 
Sunday. The night before, Arthur could not sleep; his heart was 
heavy with the decline of his kingdom and the enmity of Lancelot. 
At last he fell to sleeping fitfully, and as he slept he dreamed, 
and it seemed that the ghost of Gawain appeared to him.

"I have come to warn you of your death," said the Gawain of Arthur's 
dream. "If ye fight with Mordred as ye both have assigned, doubt not 
that ye will be ated to Salisbury.

The final battle was assigned for Salisbury on the day after Trinity 
Sunday. The night before, Arthur could not sleep; his heart was 
heavy with the decline of his kingdom and the enmity of Lancelot. 
At last he fell to sleeping fitfully, and as he slept he dreamed, 
and it seemed that the ghost of Gawain appeared to him.

"I have come to warn you of your death," said the Gawain of Arthur's 
dream. "If ye fight with Mordred as ye both have assigned, doubt not 
that ye will be slain. But within the month, Sir Lancelot and all 
his noble knights will come to England to your rescue." 

When Arthur woke, he called his two most trusted knights remaining, 
Sir Bedevere and Sir Lucan, and charged them to make a truce with 
with Mordred. After some hours it was agreed, and the two leaders 
arranged to affirm the treaty betwixt their armies on Salisbury 
Field, and each should bring just fourteen knights. 

Arthur and Mordred met, and were agreed. But it chanced that an 
adder slithered out of a heath bush, and it bit one of the knights 
on the foot. He drew his sword to kill the snake and the knights 
of the armies, that had been so wary, saw the point of the sword 
glinting in the sun and shouted, "Treachery!"

Suddenly all was bugles blowing and trumpeting, and the two hosts 
set upon each other in the most doleful battle of them all, until 
both armies were destroyed. Arthur slew Mordred and was himself 
wounded unto death. 

The king turned to Bedevere, last of his knights, "I have not much 
time left," he said painfully. "Therefore, take my sword Excalibur 
and throw it into yonder lake."

Bedevere took the jewelled sword and went down to the lakeside, but 
he hid it behind a tree. "I have done as you ask," he told Arthur. 

"What saw thou at the lake?" asked Arthur. "Sire," replied Bedevere, 
"I saw nothing but waves and the wind on the water." 

"Then thou art lying," said Arthur heavily. "Go again, and quickly, 
for thy tarrying puts my life in jeopardy."

So Bedevere returned to the lake, and took up the sword and after a 
moment's hesitation, hurled it as far into the depths as he could. 
As he looked across the water, he saw a fair arm and a hand rise 
out of the lake and it caught the sword as it fell." 

Arthur was satisfied. He charged Bedevere to take him down to the 
lakeside, where a barge drew alongside the water's edge. 

In the little barge were a number of fair ladies, all with black 
hoods, and when they saw King Arthur they wept and keened greatly. 
Bedevere placed the weakened king into the barge, where the ladies 
received him with great mourning. 

Arthur struggled to speak. "Bedevere, I must go into the vale of 
Avalon to be healed of this wound." And Bedevere watched the barge 
as it sailed away.



Epilogue 
-------- 

When Queen Guenever heard that Arthur was slain, and of the 
bloodshed on Salisbury Field, she stole away quietly to a nunnery at 
Almesbury, and spent the rest of her days in penance for her sins.

As Gawain had prophesied in Arthur's vision, Lancelot landed at 
Dover within a month, having heard of Mordred's treachery.

He was too late to save Arthur, but was determined to see his lady 
Guenever again. For seven days he was on the road and on the eighth 
he came to a nunnery. As he entered the cloister, a nun dressed all 
in black and white saw him there and swooned.

They spoke together for a short time, and when Lancelot saw that 
Guenever had taken to a life of penance, he decided that this 
should be his destiny too. He took to his horse, weeping for the 
loss of his love, and rode until he came to the hermitage at 
Glastonbury, where he took on a monk's habit.

Lancelot saw Guenever just once more, many years later. One night, a 
vision charged him to ride with all haste to Almesbury. This he did, 
but he was too late, Guenever was dead but a half hour since. 

Without his lady, Lancelot would eat but little meat, nor drink, 
until he sickened more and more and dwindled away. Within six weeks 
he too was dead.

Of King Arthur there is little more to be told. Some say he rests in 
Avalon. Others say he is not dead at all, but sleeping and will come 
again, with his Knights of the Table Round, when the need is greatest.
