         GNOME RANGER II DESIGN NOTES. 16/4/87. LEVEL 9

BACKGROUND

The adventure, "Gnome Ranger", was pretty well received last Autumn, 
due largely to its high-quality text which covered the full range of 
humour from groan-inducing puns to political satire (eg public magic 
was ended when prophets retired behind the hedges of their individual 
cottages - a process known as "privetisation"). The Gnettlefield 
Journal, a diary supplied with the game, illustrates this style. 

Gnome Ranger was a contrast to traditional violent adventures (part 
2 was just about making a cup of tea!) and starred Ingrid Bottomlow, 
a bossy gnome of unconventional appearance but considerable star 
quality. Accidentally magicked to the wilderness by her exasperated 
family, after her "good ideas" had demolished most of Gnettlefield 
Farm, Ingrid simply walked home, setting things to rights on the way. 

"Gnome Ranger II: Ingrid's Back", to use its full title, is a sequel; 
designed and written by the same team (with gnomic text and part two 
of Ingrid's diary again translated by Peter McBride), and featuring  
the improved graphics and characterisation of the cast, which were 
introduced in Level 9's intervening game "Lancelot". The story 
continues after Ingrid's return..


DESIGN OUTLINE 

Gnome Ranger II. The game is a three-part graphical adventure, set 
in Ingrid's home village of Little Moaning, which follows the events 
stemming from the death of the old Squire and his succession as lord 
of the manor by Jasper Quickbuck. 

He has decided that Little Moaning is the ideal site for an exciting 
new enterprise zone and Gnorsegnome theme park, so the locals are to 
be evicted... unless Ingrid can put a stop to the plan. 


COMPONENTS 

The game is made up of Ingrid's diary and three adventure programs, 
corresponding to Little Moaning (the village), Gnettlefield Farm, 
and Moaning Manor. Transfer between them is automatic with disc 
versions; with cassette versions the player is told when to load a 
tape. Each part has to be loaded once. 

DIARY 

The Second Gnettlefield Journal starts with Ingrid's return home to 
Gnettlefield farm (where she finds the family have stored turnips 
in her room again), and recounts the events of the next few weeks, 
ending with the annual Mid-Winter party. 

LITTLE MOANING   

The game starts with a meeting in the village hall. Supposedly, the 
gnomes have been invited to a party hosted by the new Squire, but 
the hall is empty apart from Silas Crawley, Quickbuck's agent, who 
reveals that their invitations double as eviction notices. 

The other gnomes assume that "something will turn up", and life goes 
on as before in the village, except for increasingly frequent visits 
from surveyors and the like. 

But Ingrid is determined to counter the threat and decides to get 
everyone to sign a petition - no easy task when a typical gnomish 
reaction to her visit is for householders to double-lock all their  
doors and hide in the cellar. Ingrid is too thick-skinned to realise 
anything is amiss, but her reputation for accidental destruction is 
now well known.  

Still, with cunning and persistence anything is possible, and Ingrid 
eventually takes the completed petition to Great Aunt Ada Halfyard, 
their local councillor at Doomladen, and Ada promises to raise the 
matter at the next council meeting. 

But then Ingrid's talent for disaster strikes again. News of the 
petition leaks out and Silas Crawley reacts by bringing forward 
the date of the eviction to before the meeting. The gnomes are 
furious to learn that, because of Ingrid's meddling, they must be 
gone by tomorrow...  

GNETTLEFIELD FARM 

The eviction starts at first light, with teams of northern dwarfs 
marching on the village. Silas Crawley plans to tackle one house at 
a time, starting with Gnettlefield, so Ingrid mounts her defence 
here. 

By means of killer chickens, more root vegetables which Ingrid's 
family have again stored in her bedroom, the diversion of the River 
Dribble, collapsing the barn to imprison people inside and so on, 
by the end of the day all Silas' forces are trapped or fled, and 
he is forced to admit defeat. The farm is wrecked (again) but the 
village is saved. 

MOANING MANOR 

Ingrid's family have a secret meeting, accidentally forgetting to 
tell Ingrid, but with Seamus Sosmall's Leprechaun magic they learn 
that further plots are afoot to evict the gnomes. 

A brave volunteer must infiltrate the manor and find out what is 
going on there. By coincidence there is a vacancy for a maid, so 
Ingrid applies, in disguise, and sets out to learn what she can. 

Ingrid explores the labyrinthine building, meets the strange members 
of the Quickbuck family and their aged retainers, and soon discovers 
that Jasper Quickbuck has any number of skeletons in his closets (a 
great sheaf of BT share applications, a letter from Guiness thanking 
him for services rendered but advising destruction of the receipts, 
an older brother who they "forgot" to tell when father died, etc). 

Armed with this evidence, the gnomes confront Jasper, and Little 
Moaning is made over to its inhabitants. And, in a final twist, 
Ingrid takes over at the Manor. 

  
