
               Clarification of Contest: 19/2/89 
               --------------------------------- 
   
Many thanks to those who have already written in answer to the 
contest questions, especially to John Sweeney whose explanations 
of his replies were scholarly and most useful. 


It seems that there were a couple of mistakes in the instructions: 

1) Names should be spelt as in the Morte D'Arthur. For example, 
   Agravaine would be spelt with an "e" at the end. 

2) You were correct to reply 0 to question "F", because I forgot 
   that the grail was covered, but this gives an answer which 
   does not fit the maths. Instead, please assume the question is: 

   "How many Round Table knights were present when the Grail 
   appeared at Pentecost?" 

   My apologies for not checking carefully enough on this point, 
   though it only shifts the site a few hundred meters and so 
   the place may still have been guessable. 

3) Please assume that Carbonek and Corbin are different castles, 
   presumably both owned by King Pelles. 


Fortunately, the answers sent in so far all have other genuine 
mistake(s), which I don't think resulted from attempts to make the 
maths work, and so we didn't have to make the difficult decision 
as to whether to award the prize to someone who had only not 
identified the place because of mistakes in the instructions. 


If you have already answered, don't worry. Please have another go. 
And to keep it fair, I'd better tell everyone that the follhis part, see (3).
990 Attack if Lancelot stays in their 
    Tower (Broch) for too long. 
991 Tell Guenever to wait and close 
    the door. Then open it. One knight 
    is trapped, see (914). 
992 The loose floor works as a see-saw. 
    Jump back unless there is someone 
    to balance it, in (377). 
993 Wait until she no longer requires 
    Lancelot to give up Guenever. Then 
    kiss her. 
994 False knight, but do not kill him 
    until the meeting in Camelot. See 