








 CONFIDENTIAL: LANCELOT CONTEST DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988 LEVEL 9
 ----------------------------------------------------------------- 

The Lancelot adventure game will be accompanied by a treasure hunt, 
for the first prize of a solid silver chalice - representing the 
Holy Grail which features strongly in the Arthurian legends and in 
the game. This will be "buried" at a secret location and dug up by 
the overall winner. 

Treasure hunts are prone to several logistic problems, which will be 
tackled as follows..

* Hunt duration. An ideal treasure hunt should go on for a few 
months; we do not want someone to win the Grail on the day after 
the game is launched, and conversely interest would fade away if 
the search went on for years. 

Basically, a controllable source of information, external to the 
published game, is needed so we can give clues to Grail seekers and 
control their progress. Of the various ways of doing this (coded 
classified ads in Database magazines is one), providing a telephone 
clue line would seem to be the best. 

We would set up a telephone line with a recorded message, changed 
every week, for seekers to ring up and listen to. This would be 
quite cheap (though making it an 0898 number would probably be going 
too far!) and would control game progress well: the Grail could not 
be won too soon if a vital clue was withheld for several weeks, 
and, conversely, slow progress could be countered by helpful hints. 

* Retaining media interest. With a simple treasure hunt for a single 
prize, there are only two times of interest: when the contest starts 
and when the prize is won. What we need is something to fill the gap, 
perhaps intermediary winners: finalists who would then go forward to 
contest the main prize. If groups of finalists were selected at 
regular intervals, with the last group being chosen just before the 
second stage of the contest, interest would be maintained throughout. 

* Security. While it is obviously a good idea for the Grail to be 
buried in the ground, it should be dug up after the photo session 
and "buried" in a bank vault until just before the end of the 
contest. It would not do for some kid with a metal detector to 
scupper the quest. 

                           ----------

My proposal is as follows..

1) At the game launch, where I believe a medieval contest is planned 
   for the journalists, the winner would be the first finalist. 

2) The competition in the game would actually be a set of perhaps 
   four contests; one a month. Each would be triggered by a message 
   on the quest 'phone and would result in a possible location for 
   the Grail. At the end of each month, we would pick out 9 
   finalists from those who sent in correct answers. Each finalist 
   would get a scroll, (making them a knight of the Round Table?), 
   and perhaps some token prize. For publicity reasons, we might bias 
   finalists (in the first month at least) so that there was one from 
   each region of the country. 

3) Immediately after the last of these puzzles was won, we'd send out 
   the details of the second stage contest to all the finalists. This 
   would require a fair amount of Arthurian research, and would lead 
   to the actual location of the Grail. The first person to 'phone in 
   the correct answer would win, and we would take them along to the 
   site in order to unearth the (re-buried) Grail. 

   To console the runners up, all finalists who found the Grail 
   within a rrness. 

                           ---------- 

Each of the preliminary contests is structured as follows:

1) The telephone message/PCW advert gives the triggering clue for 
   that month's contest (a crude example might be, "take the second 
   word from each paragraph of the first story). 

2) Players use the triggering clue to find words in the game and 
   booklet text (either directly, as the above example, or because 
   it refers to a series of riddles, e.g "Understand all the books 
 rness. 

                           ---------- 

Each of the preliminary contests is structured as follows:

1) The telephone message/PCW advert gives the triggering clue for 
   that month's contest (a crude example might be, "take the second 
   word from each paragraph of the first story). 

2) Players use the triggering clue to find words in the game and 
   booklet text (either directly, as the above example, or because 
   it refers to a series of riddles, e.g "Understand all the books 
   in Merlin's library, which have 'Magic' in their titles"). 

3) The words are arranged into a "master riddle", giving a possible 
   location for the Grail. There are many ways of deriving a place 
   from a riddle; a simple example, using initial letters, might be 
   "The isthmus narrows to a grassy exposed land" (Tintagel). 

4) Successful players send in the master riddle and solution: every 
   entry accompanied by the appropriate coupon from the game. (I 
   don't mind multiple entries from people who buy multiple games!)

(I will actually insert more riddles than necessary into the game, 
so that we can cope with such situations as someone stumbling on 
and publicising the answer to a contest that has not yet started. 
This will also allow us to regulate the quest - e.g triggering a 
difficult contest if players found the first one too easy.) 

Contest design breaks down into two elements: hiding the words of 
the master riddle in the program or booklet, and deriving a place- 
name from the master riddle. 

Example ways of hiding the words of a master riddle: 
* in the booklet; 
* in the text that people tell you on first meeting; 
* answers to selected riddles, in Merlin's library; 
* ditto, said in "thank you" messages by freed knights; 
* ditto, carved in upper case, on scenery throughout the game.  

Specified in any of the following ways:
* words following, or riddles containing, a word in a specified 
  category; e.g the name of a colour, or a word starting with Q; 
* by position; e.g the 4th word in each paragraph. 

Example ways of deriving a place-name from a riddle: 
* initial letters; 
* straightforward question, e.g "Capital city with Arthur's Seat". 
 
That's it. As you can see, the mechanism and structure of the contest 
is all worked out. Producing the master riddles and hiding their 
component words will be pretty much routine, but, as it will involve 
quite a bit of work, I'd like agreement before going ahead. 

                              - Pete Austin 16/5/88 