LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 10)

Tristram agreed to bear Queen Morgan's shield, which bore an insulting 
picture concerning Arthur, Guenever and Launcelot, at a tournament. 
King Arthur asked him to explain the design, but Tristram could not 
and he refused to give his name. 

Arthur therefore challenged Tristram, but was knocked down and wounded. 
Sir Uwain sought revenge, and was also knocked from his horse. Then 
Arthur stopped the fight and Tristram left to seek Launcelot.

Sir Breunis Saunce Pite killed a knight and lady; Palomides sought
revenge and Tristram rescued him from attack by ten knights of 
Breunis, killing several and chasing the rest into a tower. They 
identified themselves, Tristram considered Palomides to be his 
mortal enemy, and they agreed to fight in a fortnight. 

Tristram and Palomides rode together to safety; they met an armoured 
knight sleeping beside a well; Tristram woke him and was attacked and 
wounded for his trouble. Tristram then hunted the strong knight.

His shield was covered and he seemed to be attacking any of Arthur's 
men he met; he spoke villainy against the king, killed an unnamed 
knight and wounded Gawain and Bleoberis among others. Tristram swore 
to send him to Arthur by the next feast. 

Tristram met Sir Sagramore le Desirous and Sir Didinas le Savage, 
refused to give his name as usual, was challenged to joust and knocked 
then down. They allowed him not to continue the battle on foot, when 
he explained that any wounds would imperil h the 
Round Table. (His name appeared on Marhaus' seat, which had been 
vacant since Tristram killed him at the start of Tristram's tale.) 

Tristram promised Arthur a boon and was required to stay at Camelot.

Meanwhile, King Mark was in Cornwall. He did not trust Tristram, not 
least because of his wife, La Beale Isoud, and was grieved to hear of 
Tristram's prowess. His spies reported that Tristram was in Camelot, 
so King Mark chose two knights and proposed to murder him.

Sir Bersules refuse the 
Round Table. (His name appeared on Marhaus' seat, which had been 
vacant since Tristram killed him at the start of Tristram's tale.) 

Tristram promised Arthur a boon and was required to stay at Camelot.

Meanwhile, King Mark was in Cornwall. He did not trust Tristram, not 
least because of his wife, La Beale Isoud, and was grieved to hear of 
Tristram's prowess. His spies reported that Tristram was in Camelot, 
so King Mark chose two knights and proposed to murder him.

Sir Bersules refused to obey King Mark in this shameful deed, so the 
King immediately killed him. Sir Amant saw this foul deed and likewise 
refused to obey King Mark. The King departed and Amant buried Bersules. 

King Mark rode to a fountain and rested secretly there. Sir Lamorak de 
Gales arrived and cried about his love for Queen Morgause of Orkney; 
King Mark revealed himself and Sir Lamorak, not recognising him but 
hearing his Cornish accent, said it was a pity that Cornwall was ruled 
by a false coward.

Sir Dinadan arrived and likewise insulted the King of Cornwall. Dinadan 
offered to joust with King Mark, but he refused. However, King Mark was 
egged on to fight Sir Lamorak, got knocked from his horse, chose to 
continue the battle by sword and was beaten again. Sir Dinadan was 
scornful of King Mark's arrogance in thinking to defeat a knight so 
much better than he, and insulted all Cornish knights. 

King Mark, Sir Lamorak and Sir Dinadan continued together. King Mark 
was induced to joust with Sir Train, both their lances shattered and 
the King could not be induced to continue. 

They stayed at Sir Tor's castle. Berluse, the lieutenant of the castle, 
recognised King Mark as the slayer of his father, let him stay for the 
sake of Tor and Lamorak, but threatened to attack him when he left. 

King Mark left early with Sir Dinadan, but Sir Beluse and two cousins 
met them three miles away. Berluse smote King Mark from his horse, but 
then Dinadan joined in, saying he had to take King Mark to Arthur, and 
defeated them. King Mark tried to murder Berluse, now Dinadan had got 
him down, but Dinadan put a stop to this.

King Mark and Sir Dinadan arrived at a bridge guarded by a knight; Sir 
Dinadan jousted and was beaten by a mystery knight, in fact Sir Tor. 
King Mark mocked him, but then refused Dinadan's challenge.

King Mark and Sir Dinadan came upon six knights and King Mark ran away. 
Dinadan joined the knights, all of the Round Table, and they welcomed 
each other.  Dinadan had told King Mark that Launcelot bore a silver 
shield with black bends, and they gave this to Sir Dragonet.

Sir Dragonet, Arthur's fool, rode upon King Mark, shouting like a mad 
mad. King Mark fled, thinking himself attacked by Launcelot, and was 
pursude by Dragonet, with the other knights laughing and riding after. 

King Mark chanced to ride by a well, where sat a knight on horseback. 
The king pleaded for help; the knight toppled Dragonet with ease; the 
following knights were angry and attacked, but were smitten down in 
turn. King Mark learned he was Palomides after he left.

Sir Dinadan and King Mark rode after Palomides, and seperately found 
him moaning about his love for La Beale Isoud, and criticising her 
cowardly and treacherous husband, King Mark. 

King Mark returned to Camelot and killed Sir Amant, who had earlier 
refused to join in killing Tristram. He then fled, but was pursued 
and caught by Launcelot; grovelled and refused to fight; was brought 
back and (falsely) pledged allegiance to Arthur. 

Meanwhile, Dinadan comforted Palomides and they rode together past 
Queen Morgan le Fay's castle. Her practice was to send out knights to 
challenge passers-by, imprisoning any who were defeated. A knight with 
a red shield was already there, and they watched him defeat five 
knights from the castle. Palomides offered to take over, in case the 
knight with the red shield was weary, but the red knight challenged 
and knocked him down too. Then the knight defeated seven more knights 
and made the survivors renounce the custom of the castle. Finally, 
another knight appeared, said the custom of challenging passers-by was 
ended, went back into the castle and locked the door. 

The knight with the red shield rode wearily away, but Palomides 
insisted on fighting him to redress his earlier defeat. And Palomides 
refused to joust, but insisted on fighting on foot. Both were badly 
wounded; they paused and gave their names - the other knight was Sir 
Lamorak de Gales; Palomhts with one spear, was Sir Palomides.

King Arthur arranged a jousting at a priory. Gawain and his brothers 
from Orkney did very well, until Sir Lamorak arrived and smote them 
down, and twenty knights beside. Most people were delighted, but 
Gawain called a meeting with his brothers at which he explained that 
Sir Lamorak hated them because they slew his father, King Pellinor, 
in revenge for the death of their own father. Gawain pointed out that 
Arthur loved what they hated and vice versa. And hts with one spear, was Sir Palomides.

King Arthur arranged a jousting at a priory. Gawain and his brothers 
from Orkney did very well, until Sir Lamorak arrived and smote them 
down, and twenty knights beside. Most people were delighted, but 
Gawain called a meeting with his brothers at which he explained that 
Sir Lamorak hated them because they slew his father, King Pellinor, 
in revenge for the death of their own father. Gawain pointed out that 
Arthur loved what they hated and vice versa. And he swore revenge. 

King Arthur made King Mark swear peace towards Sir Tristram and, 
against the advice of many knights, returned them to Cornwall. 

Percival. Sir Agloval brought a young squire to court, brother to him 
and to Sir Lamorak, and the squire was named Percival. When Arthur 
had knighted him, a high-born maiden who had never spoken came into 
the hall and took Percival by the hand, saying "Arise, Sir Percival, 
the noble knight and God's knight, and go with me". And she led him 
to the seat on the right hand of the Siege Perilous. 

Queen Morgause of Orkney was invited south by Gawain and his brothers, 
to stay in a castle near Camelot, with the aim of trapping Lamorak. He 
arranged to meet her one night and went into the Queen's bed, for they 
loved one another. Then Sir Gaheris burst in and slew his mother, 
though he spared Lamorak because he was unarmed, merely threatening to 
kill him later. Gaheris had no choice but to arm himself and ride away.

Arthur was angry that Gaheris had slain his mother, and commanded him 
from the court, and Gawain was furious that Gaheris had slain their 
mother and let Lamorak escape. Launcelot was saddened by the affair 
and prophesied that the Round Table would lose Sir Lamorak, for Sir 
Gawain and his brothers would surely slay him. 

As two of Sir Gawain's bretheren, Sir Gawain and Sir Mordred, rode on 
their adventures, they met a wounded knight being chased by Breunis 
Saunce Pite. Sir Dinadan was also there, but refused to help until 
Breunis had knocked them both down and tried to trample them. Then 
Dinadan knocked Sir Breunis down and he ran away. 

Gawain, Mordred and Dalan (the wounded knight) were grateful, but when 
they found out Dinadan's name they were angry, for Dinadan loved only 
good knights and hated their enemies. Dalan said that Dinadan had 
killed his father, attacked Dinadan and was slain. Then the brothers 
attacked, but were both knocked down - though they went on to cowardly 
slay Dinadan later, during the Quest for the Holy Grail.

Meanwhile at Arthur's court, a Round Table knight called Sir Fergus 
arrived from Cornwall, with a damosel bearing good tidings from Sir 
Tristram. And she took letters back: Sir Launcelot warned Sir Tristram 
against King Mark (who he called King Fox), La Beale Isoud was happy 
to receive tidings from Arthur and Guenevere, but King Mark was angry 
that Tristram had written to Arthur in the first place. 

King Mark wrote back: to Arthur, telling him to mind his own business 
as he could barely keep his own wife and kingdom; and to Launcelot and 
Guenever, speaking shame against them. All were furious, including Sir 
Dinadan who got to read Launcelot's letter, but Sir Dinadan advised 
them to do nothing, because King Mark was so villainous that no one 
got fair speach from him, except that he composed a song and sent a 
harper to play it to King Mark.
 
Sir Tristram won at joust and at tournament, but he was hurt. Then an 
army arrived from Sessoine, led by Elias, and camped near Tintagel. 
King Mark hated Sir Tristram too much to send for him, until the 
council insisted. 

Tristram was sent for but refused to come; the Cornish army sallied 
forth and was beaten back; again Sir Tristram refused to come; King 
Mark sent for Tristram a third time and by this time he was healed 
and set out with a party of ten knights. He killed four enemy knights, 
his knights killed more enemies, and Tristram entered the castle.   

Tristram took control, had the Sessoins' ships burnt at night, and 
arranged the battle for tomorrow. The battle continued all day, with 
great slaughter. Then Elias offered a fight of champions to decide 
the issue; the combat went too and fro, but eventually Tristram 
killed Sir Elias. 

Dinadan's harper arrived at the victory feast and asked Sir Tristram's 
advice about his song. Sir Tristram promised to protect him, so Eliot 
the harper sang his lay about King Mark's treason and villainy. 

Eliot said the song was sent by a Rounce Boudwin, but his 
wife and young son escaped to the Castle of Arundel. King Mark told 
Sir Sadok to kill them, but instead he saved them, only pretending 
to King Mark that the child was drowned.

Boudwin's son, Alisander, grew big and strong and in time he was 
knighted, with twenty of his fellows. Then Anglides came forward and 
gave his father's bloody doublet and shirt to her son, revealed that 
King Mark was the murderer, and charged him to revenge the death. 
Alisander was armoured and jonce Boudwin, but his 
wife and young son escaped to the Castle of Arundel. King Mark told 
Sir Sadok to kill them, but instead he saved them, only pretending 
to King Mark that the child was drowned.

Boudwin's son, Alisander, grew big and strong and in time he was 
knighted, with twenty of his fellows. Then Anglides came forward and 
gave his father's bloody doublet and shirt to her son, revealed that 
King Mark was the murderer, and charged him to revenge the death. 
Alisander was armoured and jousted with the others, overthrowing all 
twenty. But one of those knights went to King Mark and revealed all. 

The King sought Sir Sadok and ordered him killed, but Sadok killed 
four knights and escaped. Then Sir Tristram sent a letter to Alisander, 
advising him to go to Arthur's court and put himself into the hands of 
Sir Launcelot. And King Mark wrote to Queen Morgan le Fay and the 
Queen of Northgales, asking them to use sorcery to kill Alisander. 

Alisander left for London, but got lost. He won a seaside tournament, 
smiting down King Carados and twenty of his knights and also Sir Safir, 
brother to Palomides. Alisander made his conquests swear not to bear 
armour for a year and a day. And news got back to Queen Morgan le Fay. 

A damosel in a castle saw Alisander le Orphelin defeat four knights, 
and he agreed to fight an evil neighbour. He easily knocked this 
Malgrin from his horse, but Malgrin was one of the most dangerous 
knights of the world on foot and they fought for three hours before 
Malgrin was killed. Alisander was carried into the castle and his 
wounds treated by Queen Morgan le Fay. 

The damosel asked Morgan to get Alisander to marry her, but Morgan did 
the opposite and told him to refuse her. So the damosel married Gerin 
le Grose instead. 

Queen Morgan then drugged Alisander and took him to her own castle, La 
Beale Regard, and made him promise to stay there for a year and a day. 
Then she cured him, but Alisander regretted his promise because he 
wanted revenge upon King Mark. Then a damosel, cousin to Queen Morgan 
le Fay, explained that the Queen had immoral designs upon Alisander, 
said the castle was hers by right anyway, and offered to have her 
uncle burn it down. Alisander agreed, the castle was destroyed, and 
Alisander swore to defend its site for his year and a day. 

Alice la Beale Pilgrim (named for her father) swore that she and all 
her lands would go to he who held the land; then she met Alisander and 
they fell in love. Alisander defeated lots of knights, requiring each 
to wear no armour for a year and a day, and finally departed to live 
happily in Benwick with Alice. And they had a son, Bellengerus le 
Beuse, who was to prove a passing good knight and finally get revenge 
against King Mark. 

Meanwhile, Sir Galahaut the Haut Prince was lord of the country of 
Surluse, within the lands of King Arthur. And, with permission of 
Arthur and Guenever, he arranged eight days of jousting. And these 
went on for fourteen pages, with the usual grudge matches and Sir 
Launcelot disguising himself as a maid. The winners were Launcelot, 
Lamorak de Gales, Palomides and King Bagdemagus, in order. 

Galahaut the High Prince and King Bagdemagus arranged a tournament in 
Cornwall, with the idea of killing Launcelot because he was always 
better than them. King Mark learned of their intent and sent Tristram 
in disguise, letting it be thought he was Launcelot. Everyone set 
upon Tristram but he was victorious, though wounded. King Mark's party 
were glad, but the others were sorry. 

King Mark offered to treat Tristram, took him to a castle and gave him 
poison. La Beale Isoud learned that Tristram was missing and asked Sir 
Sadok to find him. Learning that King Mark had imprisoned him, Sadok 
and two cousins lay in ambush, bursting out upon King Mark and slaying 
his four nephews who accompanied him, though the king fled. 

When Sir Sadok learned of the treason and felony of King Mark, he 
joined with Sir Dinas the Seneshal and they garrisoned the castles of 
Liones and raised an army. And King Mark did likewise from Tintagel. 

King Mark now counterfeited letters from the Pope, asking him to bring 
an army to Jerusalum to help against the Saracens. These he sent to 
Tristram in prison, proposing to free Tristram specifically to put 
down the uprising in King Mark's absence. Tristram agreed that the 
king must go to Jerusalem, but refused his request. King Mark then 
counterfeited another letter, from the Pope to Trisnting when he encountered the Questing Beast at 
a well. Then Breunis Saunce Pite and Sir Palomides arrived. They met 
with Sir Bleoberis; Palomides jousted with him and was knocked down, 
and Bleoberis threatened Breunis and chased after him. As Sir Breunis
Saunce Pite fled, he came upon Ector de Maris, Percival de Gales and 
Sir Harry le Fise Lake, all of the Round Table, and pleaded for rescue. 

They defended Breunis and Bleoberis struck all three to the ground, 
though he fell with his horse, inting when he encountered the Questing Beast at 
a well. Then Breunis Saunce Pite and Sir Palomides arrived. They met 
with Sir Bleoberis; Palomides jousted with him and was knocked down, 
and Bleoberis threatened Breunis and chased after him. As Sir Breunis
Saunce Pite fled, he came upon Ector de Maris, Percival de Gales and 
Sir Harry le Fise Lake, all of the Round Table, and pleaded for rescue. 

They defended Breunis and Bleoberis struck all three to the ground, 
though he fell with his horse, in knocking down Sir Harry. Then Sir 
Breunis Saunce Pite attacked Sir Bleoberis as he lay on the ground and 
tried to slay him. Sir Harry stopped the shameful attack; Sir Breunis 
spoke fair and Harry released his horse; Sir Breunis then tried to 
ride over Sir Bleoberis again; Sir Harry stopped him but was struck 
down while trying to mount his horse; and finally Sir Breunis Saunce 
Pite fled, chased by Sir Percival. 

Sir Palomides arrived and challenged Bleoberis. They gave their names 
and Palomides, in passing, mentioned how Sir Gawain and his bretheren 
had feloniously slain Sir Lamorak de Gales. Sir Percival swooned when 
he learned of his brother's death. 

Dinadan met Tristram and they argued about whether lovers made good 
knights. Tristram refused to give his name, so Dinadan became angry 
and called him a coward. Then Sir Epinogrus, great lover of the King 
of Wales' daughter, arrived. Dinadan jousted with him to prove the 
point but was knocked down. 

Tristram returned to Joyous Gard, where Gawain's brothers Agravain and 
Gaheris had just slain a knight who spoke up for Launcelot. Tristram 
followed and berated them, but did not attack for King Arthur's sake. 
However, when they attacked him, Tristram knocked down the murderers 
and wounded them. 

Sir Dinadan visited at Joyous Gard and argued love and chivalry with 
La Beale Isoud. 

Then Dinadan left and met up with Sir Tristram, whose name he still 
did not know and who he still called a coward. They met with Gawain's 
good brother Gareth; Tristram refused to joust but Dinadan insisted on 
jousting and was knocked down. They continued happily along, joking 
about their cowardly companion, until they met Sir Palomides. Gareth 
jousted with Palomides and was knocked down, Dinadan refused to fight, 
but Tristram rode forward and knocked down Palomides. Now Dinadan knew 
who he was, for the first time. Tristram and Palomides prepared to 
fight on foot; Palomides gave his name and revealed that his mortal 
enemy was Sir Tristram; when Tristram revealed that this was himself, 
Sir Palomides was astonished, repented and made peace. 

Dinadan said that Tristram had mocked him, because he had been looking 
for Tristram all along, at Launcelot's advice. But Dinadan pointed out 
that Launcelot knew well where he was: in Launcelot's own castle. 

Tristram, Palomides, Dinadan and Gareth planned to compete together at 
a tournament. On their way, they came to the Humber bank and heard sad 
crying from a ship, wherein lay a dead knight. A letter in his hand 
pleaded for one of Arthur's knights to revenge him against the two 
brothers who had slain him, receiving his Red City and castles in 
reward. Palmoides took the enterprise. 

The other three stayed at a castle, where their host claimed that Sir 
Tristram had slain his brother. The knight followed when they left, 
attacked and would not stop until Tristram knocked him down and nearly 
killed him. 

Dinadan was carrying Tristram's helm, which came from the Queen of 
Northgales via La Beale Isoud, when Berrant le Apres (alias the King 
with the Hundred Knights) and Sir Segwarides arrived. Berrant loved 
the queen, so he challenged Dinadan how he came by it, and knocked him 
down. Berrant took the helm, but Tristram unseated him and got it back. 

Meanwhile, Palomides was taken to the lands of Hermance, the dead king. 
He blew the horn the mariners gave him and was escorted into a castle.
Sir Ebel, a local knight, told how King Hermance had brought up two 
children who had now become dangerous knights. The king gave them lots 
of power, but because they were not gentlemen by blood this was not 
enough and they murdered him. You can't trust social climbers.

Sir Ebel advised Palomides to sail to the Delectable Isle, near to the 
Red City. He fought Sir Hermind, who was also seeking to avenge the 
king. The brothers, Helius and Helake, arrived with forty knights to 
strike fear in the Red City. Palomides defeated both of them in a well-
described fhodin met them with twenty knights, and he challenged to 
win Isoud. Palomides, who was besotted with Isoud, jousted and knocked 
down five knights, before Galihodin called a halt and the company 
continued on their way. They met Gawain, Uwain, Sagramore and Dodinas, 
but Palomides beat them too. The defeated knights met and talked, 
while Palmoides and co continued to the tournament. 

The tournement of Lonazep went on for several pages; Sir Tristram beat 
the Orkney knights, so that they withdrew;hodin met them with twenty knights, and he challenged to 
win Isoud. Palomides, who was besotted with Isoud, jousted and knocked 
down five knights, before Galihodin called a halt and the company 
continued on their way. They met Gawain, Uwain, Sagramore and Dodinas, 
but Palomides beat them too. The defeated knights met and talked, 
while Palmoides and co continued to the tournament. 

The tournement of Lonazep went on for several pages; Sir Tristram beat 
the Orkney knights, so that they withdrew; Tristram and Palomides 
smote down fifty knights, mostly from Arthur's group; Launcelot and 
Bleoberis knocked them down in turn; the King of Northgales gave 
Tristram his own horse, and Tristram repaid this by winning Arthur's 
horse for the King of Northgales; Palomides did brilliantly, for the 
sake of Isoud, but only beat Launcelot by the dishonourable deed of 
slaying his horse; and, near the end, Palomides tried to beat Tristram 
by attacking him dishonourably, in disguise when he was already hurt; 
etc. etc. Palomides won the first day, Tristram the second and Sir 
Launcelot the third. 

During the tournament, Tristram and Queen Isoud were angry with Sir 
Palomides and Sir Tristram asked him to depart. Palmoides explained 
that he had not recognised Sir Tristram, who had been disguised as 
usual, and Tristram let him stay, though Isoud wasn't convinced. At 
the end, Palomides and Tristram parted enemies, Sir Palomides leaving 
with the Kings of Wales and Scotland. And the prize for best knight 
was divided between Launcelot and Tristram. 

Palomides left the kings after a while and met a wounded knight at a 
well. He was Epinogrus, son of the King of Northumberland. Palomides 
told of his love for La Beale Isoud, and Sir Epinogrus told how he had 
just lost his lady in battle with Sir Helior. 

Palomides took Epinogrus to a hermitage; then he met a ten knights, 
led by a knight with Sir Ector de Maris' shield; Sir Helior came into 
view leading the lady, and the knight with Ector's shield fought him 
for her and evantually made him yield. The lady confirmed that she 
wanted to return to Epinogrus, but the knight with Ector's shield 
refused to let Palomides take her and they fought for an hour. Then 
they paused and the knight revealed himself as Sir Safer - brother of 
Sir Palomides - and they kissed and wept. The lady went to Epinogrus 
and everyone was happy. 

The next day, Palomides and Safer rode forth. They came to a castle 
whose lord had been killed by Palomides and were captured, despite 
fighting off twenty knights and forty noblemen for an hour. Sir Safer 
was freed, but Palomides was found guilty and carried, tied under the 
belly of an old horse, to the Castle of Pelowes where the father of 
the dead knight lived, and where Palomides would have justice. As they 
travelled, a knight came up, learnt what was happening and rode with 
all speed to Joyous Gard. Tristram rushed to rescue Palomides, but 
Launcelot saw his group passing and rescued him first. Palomides then 
had to stop Tristram attacking Launcelot in error. 

They returned to Joyous Gard, Palomides knelt and thanked Launcelot 
and all were friends again. Launcelot left after a few days, but Sir 
Palomides stayed for two months, getting more mournful and fading away 
as he thought of Isoud. 

Palomides went out and lay down by a well to compose a song about 
La Beale Isoud, but Sir Tristram chanced to hear his words and was 
furious. They agreed to fight in fifteen days time and, three days 
before this, Tristram was wounded by a hunter's arrow; though he 
thought it was fired by Palomides. 

On the day set for battle, Sir Palomides arrived on the appointed 
field, bringing witnesses from Arthur's court. But Tristram sent a 
message that he was injured, though he would pursue Palomides once 
cured. 

Tristram was well in a month and rode from country to country, seeking 
Palomides, had many adventures and achieved great fame which 
eclipsed even that of Launcelot. Launcelot's kinsman were envious of 
Tristram and would have slain him, but Launcelot forbad this.
 
News of Tristram's fame came to Cornwall, and they of Liones sent 
letters of recommendation to him, and paid to maintain his estates. 
And between adventures, Tristram returned to Joyous Gard to be with 
La Beale Isoud, who loved him as Life itself. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 11)

Now we leave Sir Tristram de Liones and speak of Sir Launcelot du Lake 
and his son, Sir Galahad.

Before Sir Galahad was gottenrthgales had enchanted her, until the best knight in the 
world should take her hand.) The lady was naked as a needle; Launcelot 
led her from the water; she thanked him and he thought she was the 
fairest lady in the world, apart from Guenever. 

They gave thanks in a chapel. The people also gave thanks and told 
Launcelot about a serpent in a tomb, carved with "here shall come a 
leopard of king's blood, and he shall slay this serpent, and this 
leopard shall engender a lion in this foreign countlrthgales had enchanted her, until the best knight in the 
world should take her hand.) The lady was naked as a needle; Launcelot 
led her from the water; she thanked him and he thought she was the 
fairest lady in the world, apart from Guenever. 

They gave thanks in a chapel. The people also gave thanks and told 
Launcelot about a serpent in a tomb, carved with "here shall come a 
leopard of king's blood, and he shall slay this serpent, and this 
leopard shall engender a lion in this foreign countly, the which lion 
shall pass all other knights." Launcelot lifted the tomb and managed to 
kill the horribly, fiendly and fire-spitting dragon which emerged. 

King Pelles of that country, near cousin to Joseph of Arimathea, 
arrived and met Launcelot. As they feasted, a fair young damosel came 
into the room, bearing a vessel of gold between her hands. Everyone 
knelt devoutly and prayed to it and Pelles explained that the vessel 
was the Holy Grain (Sangrail). 

Pelles knew that Launcelot must lie with his daughter, so that Sir 
Galahad would be born to later save the country and achieve the Holy 
Grail. Dame Brisen offered to arrange this and sent Launcelot a ring 
which seemed to come from Guenever, with a messenger saying that she 
was in the Castle of Case. When Launcelot arrived, Dame Brisen put 
Elaine in Launcelot's bed and gave him a cup of wine which made him 
besotted. 

In the morning, Launcelot was ashamed and drew his sword to kill 
Elaine as a traitress, but she knelt for mercy and he forgave her. She 
explained about the prophecy and Launcelot departed mildly. The child 
was later named Galahad because Launcelot had once been so named. 

Some time later, Sir Bromel la Pleche arrived. He had loved Elaine for 
a long time and desired to marry her, forcing her to reveal the affair 
with Launcelot, who she still loved. Bromel swore to keep the Pounte 
of Corbin for a year, and slay Launcelot if they met. But Sir Bors 
passed first, defeated Sir Bromel and spared him on the condition that 
he would yield to Launcelot upon Witsunday. 

Sir Bors continued to King Pelles and Elaine in Corbin, and explained 
that Launcelot had not come because Queen Morgan le Fay kept him in 
prison. Bors was delighted with baby Galahad and prayed that he be as 
good a knight as his father. Then a dove entered, and the maiden with 
the Holy Grail arrived to say, "Wit you well, Sir Bors, that this 
child is Galahad, that shall sit in the Siege Perilous, and achieve 
the Sangrail, and shall be much better than ever was Sir Launcelot du 
Lake, that is his own father." and there was a smell of spices.

Sir Bors named Corbin the Castle Adventurous. King Pelles warned him 
that no knight should win worship there, unless he be himself of 
worship and good living, loving and dreading God. Sir Bors said he 
would stay their that night anyway and was confessed clean... however 
he had begotten a child, Helin, on the daughter of King Brandegoris. 

That night, a spear with a burning head came at Bors and smote him a 
grievous wound in the shoulder. Then a knight attacked; Bors beat him 
back; the knight went into a chamber and emerged refreshed; Bors beat 
him again and this time blocked the way to the chamber. The knight, 
Pedivere of the Strait Marches, yielded and was required to go to 
Arthur next Whitsunday. 

Bors lay down to rest, but then clouds of arrows entered from he knew 
not where, some of them wounding Bors. Next a lion entered and grabbed 
his shield before Bors beheaded it. Then Bors saw a horrible dragon, 
with letters on his forehead to signify Arthur; a horrible leopard 
fought an old one; and the dragon spat out a hundred small dragons 
which slew him and tore his body to pieces. 

An old man entered, with two adders about his neck, and sang an old 
song about how Joseph of Arimithea came to this land. Then a white 
dove arrived, carrying a golden censer, and the tempest was ended. 
The old man said Bors had done well and told him to go hence. 

Then he saw four children, bearing tapers, and an old man in their 
midst carrying the spear of vengeance. That old man told Bors to tell 
Launcelot that he surpassed all others in worldly prowess, but sin was 
so foul in him that many were his betters in spiritual matters. Then 
four gentlewomen entered, surrounded by light. They knelt before a 
silver altar and it seemed as though a Bishop knelt there too. Bors 
looked up and saw a naked silver sword hovering over his head; its 
light blinded him for a timPelles, decided to attend 
and arrived with twenty knights. 

King Arthur and most of the knights saluted Elaine, but Launcelot was 
so ashamed that he had threatened Elaine that he would not speak to 
her, though he thought she was the fairest woman that he had ever seen. 
Elaine was very unhappy about this until her woman, Dame Brisen, 
undertook that Launcelot would lie with her that night. 

Guenever commanded that Dame Elaine should sleep next to her room, and 
sent for Launcelot to come to hPelles, decided to attend 
and arrived with twenty knights. 

King Arthur and most of the knights saluted Elaine, but Launcelot was 
so ashamed that he had threatened Elaine that he would not speak to 
her, though he thought she was the fairest woman that he had ever seen. 
Elaine was very unhappy about this until her woman, Dame Brisen, 
undertook that Launcelot would lie with her that night. 

Guenever commanded that Dame Elaine should sleep next to her room, and 
sent for Launcelot to come to her room, for she did not trust Launcelot 
not to go to Elaine. But Dame Brisen pretended to be Guenever's lady 
and led Launcelot to Elaine's bed instead. Meanwhile, Queen Guenever 
discovered that Launcelot was missing and a few hours later she heard 
him talking in his sleep from next door. Guenever coughed loudly, 
so that Launcelot woke and realised where he was. 

Launcelot jumped from the window and ran mad in the woods. For two 
years he avoided everyone. 

Elaine and Guenever blamed each for driving Launcelot mad and they 
wept. Elaine left for home. Sir Bors blamed Guenever for Launcelot's 
fate and left to find him.

Bors, Ector and Lionel sought Launcelot for three months. Then they 
met Sir Melion de Tartare and he took word back to court that 
Launcelot was still not found. Consequently a group of twenty three 
knights was sent out to find him. 

Sir Agloval and Sir Percival were searching and visited their mother, 
who was a queen. She said that Gawain and Gaheris of Orkney had
shamefully their father, King Pellinor, and their brother Sir Lamorak. 

Agloval's and Percival's mother sent a squire after them with money, 
and they sent him back. The squire sought lodgings in a castle, saying 
he served Sir Agloval, but its lord murdered him in revenge for his 
brother who Agloval had slain. Agloval saw the burial, went to the 
castle, fought the lord, Sir Goodewin, and slew him.

Agloval and Percival unsuccessfully sought Launcelot together in many 
countries, until, when they were lodged in Cardican Castle, Sir 
Percival rode secretly away by night. 

Next noon, Percival came to a bridge and a pillar of stone, and found 
Sir Persides of the Round Table was bound by a chain to the pillar, 
because he had refused an uncourteous lady in a nearby castle. 

Percival cut away the chain, wounding Persides a little, whereapon a 
knight emerged from the castle to fight and Percival knocked him down. 
Percival rescued Persides' servants and sent them all to Arthur, with 
the message that he would not return until proved more worthy than the 
likes of Kay and Mordred who had mocked him. 

Percival met a knight with a broken shield and broken helm; they 
jousted and Percival was smitten down. They fought on foot for half a 
day, Percival's strength being matched by the other's experience. Then 
the other knight, Sir Ector, knew he was dying of his wounds, and asked 
Percival to ride for a priest. But Percival was too weak to ride. 

They wept; Percival prayed to Jesus; the Holy Grail appeared with the 
usual fragrant maiden and both knights were healed. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 12)

Sir Launcelot ran mad in the forest for two years, drinking water and 
living on fruit and such as he might get. Then, as he wandered, he 
came to a fair meadow where a white shield and two swords hung from a 
tree. Launcelot grabbed a sword and lashed at the sword, until all the 
meadow rang from the blows, and threw down the dwarf that emerged from 
a pavilion to stop him. 

The knight of the pavilion armed himself, hoping to disarm Launcelot 
by force, but Launcelot struck him a near-fatal blow on the head, 
rushed into the bed in the pavilion - disturbing the lady who was 
there.

The dwarf recognised Launcelot and the knight, Sir Bliant, and his 
brother, Sir Selivant, carried the bed containing Launcelot to Castle 
Blank. Launcelot was well looked after for a year and a half, but they 
kept him tied up as he did not recover his wits. 

Then the lord of the that castle, Sir Bliant, was riding in a forest 
when Breunis Saunce Pite and his brother, Sir Bertelot, attacked him 
simultaneously. Blaint fought them both well, but was wounded and fled 
back towards his castle. Launcelot broke his chains, ran out at a 
postern, pulled down Sir Bertelot with his bare hands and used 
Bertelot's sword to knock down Sir Breunis. Sir Bertelot tried to run 
Launcelot through, but Blaint struck off his hand & the brothers fled. 

Everyone was very happy with what Launcelot han, where Elaine lived 
with Galahad, their son. The young men through turves at Launcelot, 
and he threw down any he could reach, breaking their limbs, and ran 
into the castle. The knights and squires recognised him for a man of 
worship and gave him food and clothing. 

Sir Pelles' nephew, Castor, was made knight at Candlemas and they sent 
for a fool. Castor gave Launcelot a robe of scarlet and, when he was 
arrayed like a knight, he was the seemliest man in the court. Elaine 
and her maidens fon, where Elaine lived 
with Galahad, their son. The young men through turves at Launcelot, 
and he threw down any he could reach, breaking their limbs, and ran 
into the castle. The knights and squires recognised him for a man of 
worship and gave him food and clothing. 

Sir Pelles' nephew, Castor, was made knight at Candlemas and they sent 
for a fool. Castor gave Launcelot a robe of scarlet and, when he was 
arrayed like a knight, he was the seemliest man in the court. Elaine 
and her maidens found Launcelot sleeping in the garden, and she 
recognised him but said nothing. 

King Pelles, Elaine, Dame Brisen and four trusted men took Launcelot 
secretly to the chamber where was the Holy Grail, and it cured him.

Launcelot was ashamed of his madness, but Dame Elaine explained that 
nobody else knew. Launcelot rested for a fortnight, then apologised 
to Elaine for threatening to kill her after their first meeting, then 
announced his intention to stay and not return to Arthur's court. 

King Pelles gave Launcelot and Elaine the Castle of Blaint and 
Launcelot lived there, calling himself Le Chevaler Mal Fet ("the 
knight who has trespassed", or perhaps "the ill-made knight"). 
Castor recognised him, but promised to keep quiet. 

Launcelot made a sable shield, with the silver figures of a queen and 
a kneeling knight, and every day he looked towards Arthur's realm of 
Logris and wept. 

A tournament was held nearby and Launcelot sent a challenge to all 
there, that the Chevalier Mal Fet would joust against all comers on 
the Joyous Isle, that is the Castle of Bliant. And five hundred came. 

Sir Percival and Launcelot fought for two hours, wounding each other 
sore, then paused to talk. When Launcelot learned his opponent's name, 
he was sorry for fighting a Round Table knight, gave own true name 
and told the whole story to Percival and Ector de Maris. 

Launcelot heard how he was missed at Arthur's court and decided to 
return, taking his son Galahad to be knighted. And there was great joy 
and feasting at Launcelot's return. 

Meanwhile, Sir Bors de Ganis and Sir Lionel had been seeking Launcelot 
for two years, and came to the house of Brandegoris, where Sir Bors 
had gotten a son upon the king's daughter fifteen years before, and 
his name was Helin le Blank. Sir Bors liked the child and, with King 
Brandegoris' permission, took him to Camelot, where King Arthur made 
Helin le Blank a knight of the Round Table. 

While Launcelot was missing, Tristram was the best knight through all 
the land of Logris and had many strange adventures. On his return, La 
Beale Isoud told of the feast for Launcelot's return and insisted that 
he attend to protect his reputation. 

Tristram left unarmoured, with just sword and spear, and on the way he 
met his old eneny, Sir Palomides, who had just struck down a knight. 
Tristram attacked Sir Palomides, but he refused to stand and fight 
because it would be dishonourable to slay an unarmoured opponent. Then 
Tristram borrowed the armour of the wounded knight, Galleron of the 
Round Table, and wore it to fight Palomides. 

Tristram eventually knocked Palomides' sword from his hand, but refused 
to take advantage of this. Palomides did not want to fight any more, 
offered peace between them and was confessed and babtised. 

They went to the feast at Camelot, then Tristram returned to Joyous 
Gard and Palomides followed the Questing Beast. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 13)

After the service at Pentecost, a damosel from King Pelles came to 
Arthur's hall and asked Launcelot to follow her. They came to an abbey 
of nuns; Launcelot woke his cousins Bors and Lionel; Galahad was led 
in and dubbed knight the following morning. 

Galahad did not want to go to court at that time, so the others left 
him and returned to Camelot. Above the Siege Perilous was written: 
"four hundred winters and four-and-fifty accomplished after the 
passion of our lord Jesu Christ ought this siege to be fulfilled. 
Launcelot calculated that it was the same day, being the feast of 
Pentecost, and covered the letters until the rightful knight arrived. 

Arthur wanted to go to dinner, but was reminded of the custom that 
they normally had some adventure first. Then a squire entered, saying 
that a stone was floating on the river outside, with a great stone 
sticking through it. (This was prepared by Merlin, many years before.) 
On the rich pommel of the sword was written, "Never shall man take me 
hence, but only he by whose side I ought t floating sword and he withdrew it and put it 
in the empty sheath at his side. Then a damosel arrived, wept and told 
Launcelot, from Nacien the Hermit, that he was no longer the best 
knight in the world. And she told Arthur that to him would befall the 
greatest worship, for the Holy Grail would appear and replenish the 
fellowship. 

The damosel departed and Arthur arranged a joust, for he was sure that 
the Quest for the Holy Grail would mean that the Round Table knights 
were never all togeth floating sword and he withdrew it and put it 
in the empty sheath at his side. Then a damosel arrived, wept and told 
Launcelot, from Nacien the Hermit, that he was no longer the best 
knight in the world. And she told Arthur that to him would befall the 
greatest worship, for the Holy Grail would appear and replenish the 
fellowship. 

The damosel departed and Arthur arranged a joust, for he was sure that 
the Quest for the Holy Grail would mean that the Round Table knights 
were never all together again. Gawain did not fight Launcelot or 
Percival but showed he could beat the rest, even without a shield. 

At supper, the host heard thunder all round and a sunbeam entered, 
seven times as bright as day. All were alighted by the grace of the 
Holy Ghost and seemed fairer than ever before. And no man could speak. 
Then the Holy Grail entered, hidden by white samite, and the hall was 
fragrant and every knight had the food and drink he loved best. Then 
the Grail departed suddenly.

Arthur gave thanks to God, but Sir Gawain wanted to see the Grail 
clearly, not just below a cloth. He promised to labour twelve months 
in a quest for the Holy Grail, and not return until he had seen it 
more openly. And most of the knights swore likewise. 

Arthur was shattered, He blamed Gawain, for these promises had bereft 
him of the fairest fellowship and truest of knighthood that were ever 
seen together. Launcelot thought they would win much honour, but 
Arthur wept for all those who would die on the quest.  

As the knights prepared to leave, Nacien sent a message that none 
should take lady or gentlewoman with him, for they were labouring in a 
high service and must be clean of all sins to see the mysteries of Our 
Lord Jesus Christ. Then they held a service, processed through the 
streets of Camelot to Vagon castle, and the next morning divided and 
each knight took the way he liked best. 

Galahad, who was yet without a shield, rode for four days and arrived 
at a white abbey where he met Sir Bagdemagus and Sir Uwain at supper. 
The abbey owned an adventurous shield, that was dangerous to wear. King 
Bagdemagus tried it first, but was knocked down and wounded by a white 
knight, saying the king was guilty of great folly as the shield should 
only be worn by the best knight in the world. Bagdemagus' squire took 
the shield to Galahad, who wore it and was saluted by the white knight. 

(Galahad's shield was made for King Evelake by Joseph of Arimithea, 
in the name of him who died on the cross, and used by him to defeat a 
Saracen who was his cousin. Then the shield returned to Joseph, who 
drew a cross with his own blood and arranged to give it to Nacien the 
Hermit; prophesying that it would go to Galahad.) 

Galahad was told of a fiend in a tomb, went there despite the dreadful 
noise and lifted up the stone; smoke and the foul figure of a man 
emerged; Galahad crossed himself; the fiend said that Galahad was 
protected by too many angels for his power; Galahad found an armed 
body in the tomb and ordered it buried elsewhere, for it was of a 
false Christian man. (Apparantly, the body signified the great sin 
that Our Lord found in the world.) 

Next morning, Galahad knighted his squire, Melias de Lile, the son of 
the King of Denmark. 

Galahad and Melias rode for a week and came to a junction with a cross 
warning that only a good and worthy knight would have any chance on 
the left hand way. Melias tried the road first and came to a fair 
meadow, with a fair lodge of boughs; inside were a crown upon a chair, 
cloths on the ground and delicious food. Melias was not hungry, took 
the crown and continued. A knight pursued him, telling him to set down 
the crown which was not his; Melias prayed, but was knocked from his 
horse and badly wounded. Galahad followed, challenged and smote down 
the knight, then fought another  and smote off his left arm. Then a 
monk promised to heal Melias. (Apparantly, the right way was that of 
Jesus Christ and left way that of sinners. Going left was a sin of 
pride and taking the crown one of covetousness; hence the two knights). 

Galahad left Melias to heal and, some days later, left a castle named 
Abblasoure without hearing mass. He came to a mountain chapel, knelt 
and asked God for counsel, and a voice directed him to end the wicked 
customs at the Castle of Maidens. Galahad found this strong castle 
beside the river Severn and defeated seven evil brothers whose habit 
was to behead all passers-by.  

Gawain folloncelot, nearly killed Percival 
with his sword and rode off. A recluse revealed who Galahad was, but 
they could not catch him. 

Launcelot lost the path and came to a stony cross in the wasteland. He 
hoped to get directions from a nearby chapel, lit by a six-armed 
candlestick, but nobody was there. Launcelot could find no way in and 
lay down to sleep on his shield before the cross. 

Launcelot fell half asleep and saw two fair palfreys which bore a 
litter, in which was a sick knight. They stoncelot, nearly killed Percival 
with his sword and rode off. A recluse revealed who Galahad was, but 
they could not catch him. 

Launcelot lost the path and came to a stony cross in the wasteland. He 
hoped to get directions from a nearby chapel, lit by a six-armed 
candlestick, but nobody was there. Launcelot could find no way in and 
lay down to sleep on his shield before the cross. 

Launcelot fell half asleep and saw two fair palfreys which bore a 
litter, in which was a sick knight. They stopped at the cross and the 
knight asked God when his sorrow should be cured, and when should he 
find the holy vessel. The Holy Grail arrived; the knight was cured and 
prayed in thanks. The cured knight discussed the sleeping Launcelot 
with his squire and took his helm, sword and horse. 

Launcelot woke, a voice said "more harder than is the stone, and more 
bitter than is the wood, and more naked and barer than is the leaf of 
the fig tree; therefore go thou from hence, and withdraw thee from 
this holy place"; he walked sorrowfully away and came to a hermitage. 

Launcelot prayed. Then the hermit said he should thank God for his 
talents and worldly worship, and be more beholden unto God than any 
other man. For his abilities would not avail unless God was with him. 
The hermit heard Launcelot's life story, made him promise to avoid 
Guenever and explained the mysterious message as referring to his 
sins. Launcelot determined to cast all sins from him and stayed all 
that day, repenting greatly. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 14) 

Sir Percival returned to the hermit who had advised Gawain to do 
penance. She turned out to be his aunt and gave him lodgings. (She 
was once called the queen of most riches in the world, but was now 
pleased to be poor). Next day, Percival asked about the knight with 
the white shield and she said it was the best knight in the world. 

The hermit said Merlin had made the Round Table, copying the shape of 
the world and had prophesied that three of its knights should achieve 
the Holy Grail; two maidens and one chaste knight who would pass his 
father as the lion surpasses the leopard. 

Percival wanted to meet Galahad, out of kindness, and the hermit said 
he should travel to the castle called Goothe, take advice from his 
cousin there, and then see the Maimed King in the Castle of Carbonek. 

Sir Percival departed, rode all day and stayed in a fortified house. 
When he heard mass in the morning, a covered figure was in a rich bed 
behind the altar. At the sacrement, the figure revealed himself as an 
300 year-old man, dreadfully wounded and crowned with gold, who prayed 
that Jesus should not forget him. (This king had been too busy to meet 
Joseph of Arimithea; God struck him near-blind and the king prayed not 
to die without seeing the knight that should achieve the Holy Grail. 
Then a voice told King Evelake that his prayers had been heard, for 
that knight was in the court; and the king made great joy of Percival.

Percival departed and met twenty knights carrying a dead knight. When 
Percival gave his name, the twenty attacked and would have slain him 
had Sir Galahad not arrived to help. And Galahad departed before he 
could speak to him, riding quickly out of sight. 

Percival met a yeoman leading a black horse and asked to borrow it for 
the chase, but the yeoman refused. Shortly afterwards, a knight stole 
the black horse, but when Percival jousted to reclaim it his horse was 
killed and the knight rode away. 

Percival sat sadly until night, when a woman lent him her black horse 
in return for future favours, and in an hour he had covered four day's 
journey and reached a rough water. He made the sign of the cross and 
the horse was revealed as a fiend, intending to carry him to perdition. 
The fiend rushed, roaring into the water and Percival prayed all night. 

In the morning, Percival saw that he was on a wild mountain, closed 
about with sea. He went into a valley and encountered a serpent which 
carried a lion cub; a lion arrived to fight it and Percival helped 
the lion because it was the more natural beast. The lion reclaimed his 
cub and fawned on Percival like a spaniel. 

That night, he slept beside the lion and dreamed of two ladies: a 
young one seated on a lion and an old one on a serpent; and the young 
one said she served the greatest lord in the world and told Percival 
to make ready to fight the strongest champion in the world. The other 
complained that Percival had slain her serpent and asked enchanter. She told Percival that she had seen Galahad crossing 
lake Mortaise, and in return Percival promised to help her recover 
her heritage - for she said she had been wrongly driven out by the 
greatest man in the world, had persuaded several of his men to serve 
her and needed Percival to help too. Percival rested; accepted good 
food and strong wine; professed his love to the fairest gentlewoman 
he had ever seen and lay down naked beside her. But then he luckily 
saw the cross on the pomme enchanter. She told Percival that she had seen Galahad crossing 
lake Mortaise, and in return Percival promised to help her recover 
her heritage - for she said she had been wrongly driven out by the 
greatest man in the world, had persuaded several of his men to serve 
her and needed Percival to help too. Percival rested; accepted good 
food and strong wine; professed his love to the fairest gentlewoman 
he had ever seen and lay down naked beside her. But then he luckily 
saw the cross on the pommel of his sword, and made the sign of the 
cross on his forehead. Immediately, the pavilion turned to smoke; 
Percival prayed to Jesus; the damosel said he had betrayed her and 
rushed into the water - which burnt after her. Percival wounded 
himself with his sword in penance. 

The priestly man returned, explained the damosel was the master fiend 
of hell, and the white ship carried Percival away from there.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 15) 

Launcelot stayed with the hermit for three days, rode away and came to 
a chapel beside a little house. A good, white-clad man greeted him; 
Launcelot entered the chapel and found the body of an old man, also 
clad in white. The good man said that the dead man had broken the oath 
of his order by wearing a shirt, then he conjured a hideous fiend with 
his book and made it say whether the dead man was lost or saved. 

The fiend said that the dead man was saved; he had helped his nephew 
Aguarus defeat the attack of the Earl de Vale, using his power to 
capture the earl and three of his lords. Peace was agreed, but the 
earl sent three nephews to take revenge; they attacked the man during 
the sacrement but their swords would not bite, so they despoiled him, 
dressed him in the shirt and tried to burn him. He lived for a day, 
but eventually died and the fiend removed his unblemished body. 

The fiend finished its tale and vanished with more tempest; they buried 
the dead man and the holy man gave Launcelot some of his hair to carry. 
 
Launcelot met a mysterious gentlewoman on a white palfrey. Then he rode 
to a cross, where he slept and dreamed of a gold-crowned king, with a 
fellowship of seven kings and two knights, all of whom worshipped at 
the cross. An old man seemed to descend from Heaven, with a company of 
angels, and blessed them and called him his servants, good and true 
knights. But he had lost all he had set in one knight, who ruled 
himself as a warrior in wrong wars, for vain glory and the pleasure 
of the world. 

Next day, Launcelot met a hermit who explained the vision in detail. 
Five of the kings were Nappus, Nacien, Helias le Grose, Lisais, & Jonas 
and the knights were Galahad and Launcelot himself. The hermit advised 
Launcelot to avoid Galahad, so as not burden him with Launcelot's sins, 
but to pray to God for help. 

Launcelot came to a tournament. Thinking to increase his chivalry, he 
joined the weaker party on black horses against the white party. Then 
Launcelot did marvellously well, but weaked and was taken, whereapon 
his chosen party was defeated. He rode on, dozed under an apple tree 
and dreamed of an old man who criticised him for turning so lightly 
towards his evil sin. 

Launcelot came to a chapel and a recluse explained the preceeding to 
Launcelot. She said Launcelot was the best earthly knight; one party 
represented earthly knights, clothed in their black sins; the other 
were chaste and virgin knights; Launcelot had chosen to fight with the 
sinners because of his pride and vainglory. 

After dinner, Launcelot rode away into a deep valley and a deep river 
through which he had to cross, the which was hideous. As he crossed, 
an armed knight, black as any bear, smote Launcelot to the earth.   

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 16)

When Gawain left his fellowship, he rode from Whitsuntide until 
Michaelmas without finding any adventure that pleased him. He met Sir 
Ector and complained that he was weary of the quest, and Ector said he 
had met twenty knights who said likewise. 

They rode for eight days and on Saturday reached an old, wasted chapel, 
prayed and fell asleep through heaviness. 

Gawain dreamed he came to a meadow full of herbs and flowers, where he 
saw a rack of a hundred and fifty bulls. Two were brilliant white, one 
was white with a black spot and the rest were black. He watched as the 
black bulls complained and wandered hence to find better pasture. 

Ector dreamed that he and his brother, Sir Launcelot, leapt upon two 
horses to seek that which they shou
the Holy Grail. They sought a hermit's advice, lest they labour in vain.

As they rode, they met a squire who directed them to Nacien. They met 
a knight who proffered to joust. Gawain jousted with the knight; he was 
wounded but the other was smitten through the breast and nearly killed. 
They discovered he was Uwain, Gawain's brother, and took him to an 
abbey where he died. 

Gawain and Ector continued to Nacien who explained their visions; the 
white bulls were Galahad, Percival and Sir Bors 
the Holy Grail. They sought a hermit's advice, lest they labour in vain.

As they rode, they met a squire who directed them to Nacien. They met 
a knight who proffered to joust. Gawain jousted with the knight; he was 
wounded but the other was smitten through the breast and nearly killed. 
They discovered he was Uwain, Gawain's brother, and took him to an 
abbey where he died. 

Gawain and Ector continued to Nacien who explained their visions; the 
white bulls were Galahad, Percival and Sir Bors de Ganis (spotted 
because he begat Helin le Blank); the other dream was of Launcelot; 
the hand was the holy ghost, the bridle was abstinence and the candle 
the way of Jesus. Nacien confirmed that they would not see the Grail. 

Meanwhile, when Sir Bors had departed from Camelot, he met with a 
religious man riding an ass. Bors asked for advice and was told that 
none should achieve the Holy Grail save by cleanness: pure confession.
They stayed all night in a hermitage, Bors was confessed and shared 
bread and water. Then Bors agreed to eat nothing else until sitting at 
the table where the Holy Grail would be. 

Bors was given a scarlet coat instead of his shirt. Then he armed 
himself and left. (He passed beside a great bird, surrounded by dead 
birds upon a dry, leafless tree. The great bird pecked himself and 
died, but his blood revived the others.) 

Bors lodged in a strong tower, refused to sup the dainties offered by 
a fair young lady, but volunteered to fight as her champion against 
Pridam le Noire next day. That night, he dreamed of a black and a white 
bird, each of which made promises if he would serve them. Then he 
dreamed of a chapel, with a rotten tree on the left and two lilies 
on the right. A good man separated the flowers for it would be great 
folly to let two flowers perish to succour a rotten tree. Then from 
the flowers came many flowers and fruit. Bors woke and made a cross 
on his forehead. 

Bors went to chapel, refused breakfast and went, with a company of 
knights, to battle. He defeated his opponent in a classical pre-Quest 
battle, sparing his life and departing now the lady had her lands back. 

Bors rode into a forest and at midday he came upon Lionel his brother, 
who was naked and being beaten by two knights, and simultaneously a 
fair gentlewoman abducted by a knight. Bors could not save both, so he 
prayed to Jesus to keep Lionel safe and went after the single knight, 
wounding and beating him down. Then he returned the maid to her people. 
Bors had done well, for five hundred men would have died had she been 
raped. 

Bors he later discovered that his brother was dead. He took Lionel's 
body to a fair tower and put him in a marble tomb. A priest explained 
Bors' dreams: the white bird was a lady who loved him and would die if 
rejected, and Launcelot would die if Bors warned the lady, much as 
Lionel had already done. Bors was led to a high tower, given fine 
clothes and met the fairest lady he had ever seen. They sat and talked 
and the lady said that she loved him above all earthly men and wanted 
Bors to love her. Bors said he could not fulfil that wish from any 
lady, while his brother was scarcely buried. She threatened to throw 
herself from the tower, Bors crossed himself and everything vanished.  

Bors thanked God that the preceeding paragraph had been a vision, went 
to an abbey and spoke with a holy man. In Bors' dreams, the great bird 
had been Jesus, the white bird the fiend and the black bird the Church. 
The rotten tree had been Lionel (who was apparently a murderer) and the 
two lilies the rescued lady and her abductor, who he had saved from sin. 

Bors rode away. He turned to a hermitage and there found Lionel, his 
brother. Bors begged forgiveness for not rescuing him, but Lionel was 
implacable. He rode over Bors and would then have killed him, but the 
hermit got between them and Lionel slew him instead. Then Sir 
Colgrevaunce of the Round Table arrived, fought Lionel to protect the 
injured Bors, and was slain in turn. Bors would then have fought his 
brother, but he first prayed to God and a voice told him to flee, else 
he would slay Lionel. A firey cloud descended between them, Bors asked 
his brother for forgiveness and left. 

Bors rested in an abbey beside the sea, and in his sleep a voice told 
him to go down to the water. He boarded a white ship, which sailed 
away so fast it seemed to fly, and found Sir Percival on board. Of the 
three Grail knights, they lacked only Galahad.   

 to a castle beside the sea of Collibe. He ate and slept, 
then, being called, dressed by torchlight and went down to the sea 
where he found the white ship which carried Bors and Percival. 

Galahad the Haut Prince boarded and the ship sailed away quickly, 
while its passengers greeted one another happily and discussed their 
adventures. They sailed from the Land of Logris and arrived between 
two great rocks; landing was too dangerous but the gentlewoman said 
they could cross safely to another sh to a castle beside the sea of Collibe. He ate and slept, 
then, being called, dressed by torchlight and went down to the sea 
where he found the white ship which carried Bors and Percival. 

Galahad the Haut Prince boarded and the ship sailed away quickly, 
while its passengers greeted one another happily and discussed their 
adventures. They sailed from the Land of Logris and arrived between 
two great rocks; landing was too dangerous but the gentlewoman said 
they could cross safely to another ship; so this they did. 

The other ship was rich enough, but empty. Writing in the end said, 
"Thou man, which shall enter into this ship, beware thou be in 
steadfast belief, for I am Faith, and therefore beware how thou 
enterest, for and thou fail I shall not help thee". 

The gentlewoman revealed herself as Percival's sister, who he had not 
recognised, and asked him to take care, but he determined to board the 
ship. So Galahad, then the gentlewoman, then Bors and Percival entered 
and marvelled at the richness of the ship. In midst of the ship were a 
fair bed, a crown of silk and a sword. 

The sword had a haft of two ribs: from a Caledonian serpent (the 
serpent of the fiend), with the virtue that whoever handled it could 
never be weary or hurt; and from the Ertanax fish of the Euphrates, 
with the virtue that the holder would have such willpower that he 
would never weary or brood on the past. A message read, "As for this 
sword there shall never man begrip him at the handles but one, but he 
shall pass all other." Then Percival and Bors tried to grip the hilt, 
in the name of God, but both failed. 

Galahad beheld the sword and the letters read, "Let see who shall 
assay to draw me out of my sheath, but if he be more hardier than any 
other; and who that draweth me, wit ye well that he shall never fail 
of shame of his body, or to be wounded to the death." Galahad wanted 
to draw the sword, but thought the risk of offending was too great. 

The gentlewoman said he was right to be worried, for the sword was 
forbidden to all but he, and she told its story... The ship arrived in 
Logris during a war between King Labor, father of the Maimed King, and 
King Hurlame the former Saracen. King Hurlame was losing the battle 
and fled to his ship, found the sword there and took it; smiting good 
King Labor a dolorous stroke which badly wounded him and the realm of 
Logris both. Seeing this, Hurlame returned the sword to its scabbard 
and fell dead; his body had to be removed by a maiden as there was no 
man hardy enough to overcome the ship's defence. And Hurlame's death 
proved the power of the sword; no man could take it without being 
maimed or killed.  

The party examined the scabbard. In brief, it was only to be worn by 
the hardiest man, it would protect him when worn, and it could only be 
removed by a virgin princess who would die villainously if she broke 
her virginity. They turned over the sword and read, "He that shall 
praise me most, most shall he find me to blame at greatest need; and 
to whom I should be most debonair shall I be most felon, and that 
shall be at one time." 

The gentlewoman said that forty years after Jesus' death, Nacien, 
the brother-in-law of King Mordrains, found the ship near the Isle of 
Turnance. He stayed there and, on the nineth day, the ship was blown 
to another isle. Nacien drew the sword, but it broke in the middle. 
Nacien managed to defeat the giant, then encountered King Mordrains 
who said the sword had broken because of Nacien's sins and set the 
pieces together; whereapon they soldered as fair as ever. As Nacien 
left the ship, it wounded his right foot as forfeit. 

She told how Pelles, the Maimed King, found the ship and drew the 
sword - as a result of which he was smitten by a spear through both 
thighs and never healed. 

The party returned to the bed and saw two swords, hanging above the 
head, and three spindles: white, red and green. 

(Eve carried a branch from Eden, planted it and it grew into a white 
tree because she was still a maid; Adam and Eve lay together under the 
tree and it changed to green; then Cain slew Abel under the tree and 
it changed to red for blood (Note that this is also the sequence of 
the Glastonbury thorn, which flowers at Christmas.. Pete). Solomon 
build the white ship and his wife ordered the tree hacked to make the 
spindles. And prophesies were made that the last knight of Solomon's 
line, ie Galahad, would do marvellous things and rest in the bed on 
the shge Girdles" and its sheath, "Mover of Blood" for 
one part of it was made of wood from the tree of life. Galahad gripped 
the sword and she fastened it about him. 

Then the white ship returned them to land at the Castle Carteloise in 
the marches of Scotland. 

Evil knights from the castle attacked, but Galahad, Bors and Percival 
were victorious and killed them all. A good man explained that the 
three sons of the former lord tried to rape their sister; she escaped 
and their father tried to impge Girdles" and its sheath, "Mover of Blood" for 
one part of it was made of wood from the tree of life. Galahad gripped 
the sword and she fastened it about him. 

Then the white ship returned them to land at the Castle Carteloise in 
the marches of Scotland. 

Evil knights from the castle attacked, but Galahad, Bors and Percival 
were victorious and killed them all. A good man explained that the 
three sons of the former lord tried to rape their sister; she escaped 
and their father tried to imprison them, but they locked him up and 
slew a great many clerks and priests. Thus the Grail knights had done 
well; they released the former lord, Earl Hernox, who had been shown 
Galahad by the lord; Earl Hernox told Galahad to go to the Maimed King, 
then died in his arms. 

The three knights and Percival's sister departed into a waste forest 
and saw a white hart leading four lions. At mass, later, they saw the 
hart become a man, and the four lions become a man, a lion, an eagle 
and an ox. These signified Our Lord and the four evangelists. 

They came to the castle where all maids must bleed a dish of blood. 
They refused, and Galahad beat of the attacking knights. Then a good 
knight explained that their lady would only be cured by a dish of 
blood from a king's virgin daughter. Percival's sister volunteered, 
the lady was cured, but Percival's sister died. Percival made a letter 
of their adventures, put it in her hand, and launched her in a barge. 

The Grail knights waited out a tempest, then rode out. Bors left the 
other two, in order to rescue a wounded knight, but Galahad and 
Percival came to the castle, where they found a graveyard with three 
score fair tombs of victims. And everyone was dead by the vengeance of 
the lord for the blood-shedding of maidens. 

Meanwhile, Launcelot was beside the waters of Mortaise, when a vision 
told him to "arise up and take thine armour, and enter into the first 
ship that thou shall find." This he did, and found the ship carrying 
Sir Percival's sister. He read the letter in her hand and stayed on 
the ship for thirty days, nourished by the Holy Ghost. 

One night, Launcelot left the ship to pray by the waterside, and heard 
a horse arrive. Launcelot returned to greet its rider, and so it was 
that Launcelot met Galahad. And they travelled in the ship for half a 
year, serving God and meeting many strange and perilous adventures. 

One Monday, they arrived at a cross on the edge of a forest and a 
white knight came to the ship, leading a white horse, and summoned 
Galahad to leave his father and continue the quest for the Holy Grail. 
Galahad entered the forest, and Launcelot stayed with the ship and was 
blown across the sea for a month. 

At midnight, the ship arrived at a castle and a voice told Launcelot 
to enter. He armed himself and went to the gate, but two lions were 
guarding it and he drew his sword. Immediately, a dwarf smote the 
weapon from his arm and a voice criticised his evil faith, for he put 
more trust in weapons than in his Maker. Launcelot prayed for mercy, 
crossed himself and walked past the lions. 

Launcelot searched the castle until he found a closed door and, 
listening to it, heard a voice say, "Joy and honour be to the Father 
of Heaven". He knew the Holy Grail was inside, knelt and prayed, and 
the door opened and a great light shone out. Launcelot would have 
entered, but a voice forbad him. Then he looked through the door and 
saw a table of silver, the holy vessel covered with red samite, many 
angels and a priest. 

The priest seemed greatly burdened so, thinking to help him, Launcelot 
entered into the chamber of the Holy Grail. But a firy breath smote 
him down. Unable to move, he felt himself carried from the chamber. 

The people of the castle found Launcelot next day, and took care of 
him for twenty-four days, until he awoke. (This was a penance for the 
twenty-four years that he had been a sinner.) Launcelot was well, but 
weak, and asked where he was: the people said the castle of Carbonek. 

Launcelot spoke with King Pelles and was sad to learn that Elaine was 
dead. He stayed for four days and then prepared to leave. But suddenly 
all the doors and windows slammed shut; then a knight knocked at the 
front door and demanded entrance. The king refused him entrance while 
the Grail was in the castle, but when the knight gave his name as Sir 
Ector de Maris, brother to Launcelot, the king said that Launcelot was 
within. However Ector realised that this provt had burnt as a sign 
of lechery), and it was thereafter called Galahad's well. Then, by 
adventure, he came to the country of Gore and found various tombs, 
including that of King Bagdemagus. His presence quenched a burning 
tomb under the minster (one of his kin had burnt for 354 years because 
of a sin against Joseph of Arimathea) and he reburied the body.

Galahad, Percival and Bors then met and proceeded to the Maimed King, 
in Castle Carbonek. Galahad re-joined the broken sword with which 
Jt had burnt as a sign 
of lechery), and it was thereafter called Galahad's well. Then, by 
adventure, he came to the country of Gore and found various tombs, 
including that of King Bagdemagus. His presence quenched a burning 
tomb under the minster (one of his kin had burnt for 354 years because 
of a sin against Joseph of Arimathea) and he reburied the body.

Galahad, Percival and Bors then met and proceeded to the Maimed King, 
in Castle Carbonek. Galahad re-joined the broken sword with which 
Joseph was stricken through the thigh, and it was given to Bors. 

That evening, the sword arose and glowed. A voice told all unworthy 
people to depart; this left the three Grail knights, Pelles, his son 
Elizar, and Pelles' niece. Then nine knights entered, saying they had 
rushed there to be at the table where holy meat was served, and three 
each were from Gaul, Ireland and Denmark. And four gentlewomen carried 
a crowned man, who lay sick in a bed, and set him in the midst of the 
place. Finally, a voice said that two were unworthy, so Pelles and his 
son left. 

Then four angels carried in a dead bishop and set him before a table 
which held the Holy Grail. More angels entered with candles, a towel 
and a bleeding spear. Then they held a rather gruesome sacrement. A 
man with the stigmata of Jesus explained that the Holy Grail was the 
dish wherin the lamb was served on Sher-Thursday, and that it would 
not be seen in Logris thereafter because of the evil living of the 
people. He let them take of the spear's blood to annoint the Maimed 
King, then revealed that two of the Grail knights would die in his 
service and only one return to tell tidings. Then Jesus vanished. 

Galahad touched the spear's blood and annointed the king's legs; he 
promptly leapt from his bed a whole man. (There is some confusion in 
the book as to whether Pelles was the "Maimed King", stated elsewhere, 
or if it was another king, as stated here. Eg King Labor, King Pelles 
and King Rience were all wounded by dolorous strokes.) Anyway, the 
cured king went to a monastery and was a full holy man. 

That same night, a voice instructed the twelve knights who had seen 
the Grail to leave, and they went their own ways. 

Three days later, Galahad, Percival and Bors came to a shore and found 
the white ship there. They boarded and found the silver table on board, 
and upon it she Holy Grail, covered with red samite. Galahad prayed to 
be able to choose the time of his death, and this was granted. Then 
Galahad slept in the bed, to fulfil a scripture. 

When Galahad waked, the ship had reached the city of Sarras, together 
with the ship bearing Percival's sister. The Grail knights carried the 
table of silver into the city, recruiting (and incidentally healing) 
an old cripple to help. Then they buried Percival's sister in the 
place she had wished. 

The king was a tyrant and, faced with an uproar about knights marvels, 
imprisoned the Grail knights in a deep hole. But the Grail sustained 
them until, at the end of the year, King Estorause fell ill. He 
summoned the Grail knights, they forgave him, and he died. Then the 
people then made Galahad king by general assent. 

Galahad put a chest of gold and gems about the silver table, and every 
day the three knights said their prayers before the holy vessel. 
 
At the end of the year, Galahad rose early and beheld a man in the 
likeness of a bishop, surrounded by angels. He saw the Holy Grail and 
prayed to die at that moment. The good man revealed himself as Joseph 
of Aramathea; Galahad kissed and took leave of Percival and Bors; and 
a great multitude of angels carried Galahad's soul to heaven, watched 
by his two fellows. At the same time, a hand descended and took back 
the spear and the Holy Grail. 

Percival and Bors felt great sorrow at Galahad's leaving and, as soon 
as his body was buried, Sir Percival took religious clothing and went 
to a hermitage. Bors accompanied him and stayed there until Percival 
died a year and two months later. Then Bors returned to Camelot and 
told this tale. 

Thus Launcelot and Bors as the only two survivors of the Round Table 
knights who had reached the Grail. Launcelot greeted Bors and took him 
by his arms; and they promised to stay together as long as their lives 
might last. And so ends the history of the Holy Grail. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 18)

When the Quest for the Holy Grail was fulfilled, and all knights that 
were left alive returned to the Round Table, there was great joy in, to avoid slander, Guenever grew angry. She 
accused him of no longer loving her as before and, despite his 
protests, said he was a false knight and was discharged from court. 

Sir Bors advised Launcelot to stay in Sir Brastias' hermitage near 
Windsor, and this he did. But nobody else knew where he had gone.

Queen Guenever invited twenty four knights to a private dinner in 
London; Sir Gawain liked fruit and Sir Pinel hated him because he had 
treasonously slain Pinel's cousin, Sir Lamorak den, to avoid slander, Guenever grew angry. She 
accused him of no longer loving her as before and, despite his 
protests, said he was a false knight and was discharged from court. 

Sir Bors advised Launcelot to stay in Sir Brastias' hermitage near 
Windsor, and this he did. But nobody else knew where he had gone.

Queen Guenever invited twenty four knights to a private dinner in 
London; Sir Gawain liked fruit and Sir Pinel hated him because he had 
treasonously slain Pinel's cousin, Sir Lamorak de Gales, and so he 
poisoned an apple; but Sir Patrise ate the apple instead and died. 
Gawain accused the queen of trying to poison him, and Sir Mador de la 
Porte accused the queen of the death of his cousin, Sir Patrise. 

Sir Mador kept accusing Queen Guenever of treason, and Arthur could 
not defend her for he had to remain impartial. Arthur asked Sir Mador 
to take back the accusation, but he would not. So a date was set, 
fifteen days hence at Winchester, when Sir Mador would face the 
Queen's champion, and if she had none - or he lost - she would burn. 

Guenever now missed Launcelot, but she needed a champion and Arthur 
arranged for her to ask Sir Bors and for him to accept. Bors secretly 
rode to Launcelot and told him the news. Launcelot asked Bors to delay 
the fight as long as possible, to enchafe Mador and make him hasty. 
Then Bors returned and argued Guenever's innocence at court. 

On the day of the battle, the king and queen and all manner of knights 
gathered together at a meadow beside Winchester, and a great fire was 
made about an iron stake, to burn Guenever if Sir Mador had the 
better. Bors tried to delay, but Mador insisted he joust. Then, just 
as Bors came to the lists' end, a white knight burst out, waving a 
shield with a strange device. After fighting for an hour, Sir Mador 
yielded to the strange knight and released the queen from his quarrel. 
Then the strange knight removed his helm and revealed that he was Sir 
Launcelot, the queen wept that she had been unkind to him, and 
afterwards both Bors and Launcelot were healed. 

Nimue, the Damosel of the Lake, revealed the truth of the poisoning; 
Queen Guenever was excused and Sir Pinel fled the country. Sir Patrise 
was buried in Winchester, below a tomb which read "here lieth Sir 
Patrise of Ireland, slain by Sir Pinel le Savage, that empoisoned 
apples to have slain Sir Gawain, and by misfortune Sir Patrise ate one 
of these apples, and then suddenly he brast". And Sir Mador sued daily 
to have the queen's good grace, and he was forgiven. 

Arthur arranged a joust at Winchester. Launcelot was still not fit 
after the fight with Mador; Guenever was too sick to ride and so they 
both stayed behind. Arthur was angry, and Guenever blamed Launcelot 
for bringing suspicion upon them, so Launcelot agreed to attend - 
though he would fight against the king's party. 

On the way, Launcelot stayed with Bernard of Astolat (ie Guildford), 
borrowed his brother's shield and ageeed to look after his son Lavaine. 
The baron's daughter, the Fair Maid of Astalot, aka Elaine le Blank, 
was in love with Launcelot and gave him a red sleeve to carry. 

Jousting continued for several pages; Sir Lavaine smote down ten 
knights of the Round Table and Launcelot was near unbeatable, though 
Sir Bors luckily wounded him in the side. Launcelot refused the prize 
and rode away into the wood; dismounted and asked Lavaine to remove 
the head of Bors' spear. This he did; but Launcelot bled greatly and 
would have died if not cared for in a hermitage (hermits were not as 
now; all had been men of worship and prowess, and they cared for 
travellers in distress). 

Meanwhile, Arthur asked after the knight with the red sleeve, and was 
told he was wounded and likely to die. Arthur said this was the worst 
news for seven years, and Gawain sought him all around Camelot, but he 
could not be found. The company then returned to London. On the way, 
Sir Gawain lodged at Astalot and learned Launcelot's identity. And the 
Fair Maid of Astalot rode out to find Launcelot. She met Lavaine, went 
with him to the hermitage, and sat night and day beside Launcelot. 

When they learned at court that the best knight had been Launcelot, 
Sir Bors was very sad he had wounded him, but Queen Guenever thought 
only of the red sleeve, and was furious with Launcelot, calling him a 
traitor knight. Bors said her anger was baseless, for Launcelot loved 
no maid as much as the queen, and that he would hasten to find him. 

Sir Borrst open. Elaine rebuked her brother 
and Bors for letting Launcelot ride, they carried him inside and the 
hermit staunched his bleeding. It was clear that Launcelot would not 
be fit enough for the All Hallowmass jousts, so Sir Bors left him, 
returned for this tournament at Arthur's court, and told them the news 
of where Launcelot was. 

After the tournament, Bors returned to Launcelot and he made ready to 
depart. Elaine, Fair Maid of Astolat, lamented that Launcelot would 
leave her, and askerst open. Elaine rebuked her brother 
and Bors for letting Launcelot ride, they carried him inside and the 
hermit staunched his bleeding. It was clear that Launcelot would not 
be fit enough for the All Hallowmass jousts, so Sir Bors left him, 
returned for this tournament at Arthur's court, and told them the news 
of where Launcelot was. 

After the tournament, Bors returned to Launcelot and he made ready to 
depart. Elaine, Fair Maid of Astolat, lamented that Launcelot would 
leave her, and asked to be his wife or paramour. Marriage was not for 
Launcelot, but because of her kindness, he offered Elaine a thousand 
pounds yearly. She refused and Launcelot left. 

Elaine, Fair Maid of Astolat, refused to eat, sleep or drink for love 
of Launcelot and, after ten days, she died. Her father and brother set 
her body in a black covered boat to float down the Thames, and so it 
was seen by Arthur and Guenever. They read the letter about Elaine's 
plight and summoned Launcelot to explain.

After Christmas, Launcelot and Lavaine went to Sir Brastias, the 
hermit of Windsor Forest, and stayed there - Launcelot spending his 
days beside a fountain. As he lay there, a huntress overshot her 
target and struck him in the buttock, and this wound took a long time 
to heal and troubled Launcelot as he could not sit in the saddle. 

However, Launcelot was just able to attend the next tournament; both 
he and Lavaine being dressed as Saracens. He fought against Arthur's 
party, and the tournament went as usual, though Sir Gareth had to 
help Launcelot when he was attacked by the king and nine knights. At 
the end, the prize was again given to Launcelot. 

This book, number eighteen, ends with some musings on love. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 19)

At that time, the custom was that Queen Guenever never rode abroad 
without a fellowship of worshipful knights with plain white shields, 
and they were called the Queen's knights. 

In May, Guenever called her knights and arranged to ride on Maying, 
into the woods and fields beside Westminster; all clothed in green and 
each knight bringing a lady. But Sir Meligaunt proposed to destroy the 
queen, and lay in wait with twenty men and an hundred archers. 

After they had Mayed, Sir Meligaunt emerged with eight score armed men 
and challenged the company. Guenever and the Queen's knights were 
defiant, and the knights fought bravely - though they were only ten 
against a host - and slew forty attackers. Then the queen saw that her 
defenders were sorely wounded and stopped the battle; agreeing to go 
with Sir Meligaunt provided her knights could come too. 

As they left, the queen secretly sent a child of her chamber to fetch 
Sir Launcelot. Launcelot left a message for Sir Lavaine and departed, 
but when he came to the place of the battle, he met thirty archers 
left by Meliagaunt. They told Launcelot to turn back and, when he 
refused, smote his horse with many arrows. 

On foot, Launcelot was encumbered by his armour, but he came upon a 
cart. The carters refused to help until he struck one dead. Then the 
other brought him in comical fashion to Meliagaunt's castle, where he 
killed the porter and strode inside. 

When Sir Meliagaunt heard that Launcelot had arrived, he ran to Queen 
Guenever, knelt and begged for mercy. The wounded knights were treated 
and there was great good cheer. Then Queen Guenever set her knights to 
sleep beside her room, so that she could tend to them herself. 

Despite Lavaine's warnings about Meligaunt's treason, Launcelot wanted 
to see the queen and climbed a ladder to her window. He injured a hand 
in removing the window bars, then stayed in the queen's bed. When he 
was back in his own room, Sir Lavaine treated Launcelot's hand and 
hid the injury with a glove. 

In the morning, Sir Meliagaunt saw the blood upon Guenever's pillow 
and accused her of being a traitress to King Arthur, saying that he 
knew why she wanted the wounded knights nearby, for one - or all - 
had slept with her. Guenever and the knights all denied his claim, 
but they could not deny the blood. 

Launcelot arrived and saw the disarray. He said plainly that none of 
the ten wounded knights had slept with the queen. Meliagaunt gave him 
his glove as challenge, saying that she was a traitress, and they 
arranged to fight eight days later. Then Meliagaunt offered to show 
Launcelot the castle, led him onto a trap and Launcelot fell more than 
ten fathoms into a cave full of straw. 

Everyone thought Launcelot wasught and Launcelot knocked down Meliagaunt, who 
yielded. But Guenever seemed to sign for Launcelot to kill him, and 
he insisted that Meliagaunt fought on. Launcelot offered to fight 
without his helmet and the left quarter of his armour, and with his 
left hand tied behind his back. Meliagaunt accepted and Launcelot slew 
him with ease.

Sir Urre of Hungary slew Sir Alphegus of Spain, but received seven 
great wounds: three on the head and four on the body. The magic of his 
dead opponent's motheught and Launcelot knocked down Meliagaunt, who 
yielded. But Guenever seemed to sign for Launcelot to kill him, and 
he insisted that Meliagaunt fought on. Launcelot offered to fight 
without his helmet and the left quarter of his armour, and with his 
left hand tied behind his back. Meliagaunt accepted and Launcelot slew 
him with ease.

Sir Urre of Hungary slew Sir Alphegus of Spain, but received seven 
great wounds: three on the head and four on the body. The magic of his 
dead opponent's mother prevented them being cured except by the best 
knight in the world. Sir Urre's mother, and Felelolie his sister, took 
him around for seven years in a horse litter, seeking a cure, until 
they came to Arthur's court, which was then at Carlisle. Everyone 
tried to cure Urre and failed. Then Launcelot prayed and succeeded. 

At the jousts that followed, Sir Urre and Sir Lavaine did well and 
were made knights of the Round Table. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 20)

In May, when every lusty heart flourishes, there started a great anger 
and unhappiness that did not end until the flower of Chivalry was 
destroyed and slain. 

Sir Gawain and his brothers were in Arthur's chamber, when Agravain 
began to accuse Launcelot of lying day and night beside the queen, and 
saying it was shameful. Arthur said that Launcelot was a noble knight, 
who had helped them much, and who could not be matched in personal 
combat if accused. He would do nothing unless Launcelot was taken in 
the act. 

Arthur went hunting next day, as arranged with Gawain's family, and 
Launcelot took the opportunity to see Guenever. While they were in bed, 
Agravaine, Mordred and twelve knights armed themself and gathered 
outside the door, shouting that Launcelot was a traitor. Launcelot had 
no weapons, but wrapped his mantle about his arm as a shield, opened 
the door a little and let Sir Colgrevaunce of Gore stride in. Then he 
reclosed the door and killed him with a blow to the head. Launcelot 
armed himself with Colgrevaunce's equipment, burst out and killed all 
but Sir Mordred, who fled. 

Launcelot returned to his lodging and found that those of his blood 
and of his fellowship were already armed, for they had been warned by 
dreams. They promised to help, but Launcelot was loyal to Arthur and 
wanted no rebellion. Then Bors suggested that he rescue Guenever and 
take her to Joyous Gard, as Tristram had with La Beale Isoud. 

Mordred took the tale to Arthur. The king knew the Round Table was now 
broken and he condemned Guenever to burn. 

Next day, when the queen was led forth from Carlisle to her fate, Sir 
Launcelot and his party rode upon the host. And many knights were 
killed that day, including Gareth and Gaheris who were unarmed but 
slain by Launcelot in the press. 

Then Launcelot took Guenever to Joyous Gard, and many noble knights 
drew unto them. 

King Arthur swooned to hear of so many dead knights, but he was 
especially sorry to learn how Gareth and Gaheris had died; for Gawain 
would never rest until Launcelot or he were slain. And so it was. 
Gawain required King Arthur, who was his uncle, to prepare for war. 
So he recruited a huge army and besieged Joyous Gard. 

After several pages of talk, Launcelot's forces sallied forth in 
battle. Sir Bors smote down King Arthur and asked Launcelot, "Shall I 
make an end of this war?" Meaning, should he kill him? But Launcelot 
spared Arthur, rehorsed him and asked for peace. Then the armies drew 
apart to bury their dead. 

Next day the battle continued, Bors and Gawain nearly killed each other 
and Arthur's forces seemed beaten, but Launcelot let them retire. 

Then news of the war reached the Pope, and he sent bulls to Arthur, 
requiring him to take his queen back and make peace with Launcelot. 
The king wanted to agree, but Gawain would only accept the part about 
Guenever and refused to drop the dispute with Launcelot. 

A safe conduct was arranged; Guenever was returned to Arthur at 
Carlisle; Launcelot tried to apologise for the accidental death of 
Gawain's brothers and reminded everyone of past services. But Gawain 
was implacable and Arthur banished Launcelot from the land. 

Launcelot returned to Joyous Gard, which he renamed Dolorous Gard. 
His supporters preferred to follow him into banishment; a hundred 
knights left from Cardiff and sailed to Benwick; Launcelot ruled 
France and the surrounding lands, rewarding his followers by making 
them kings and lords. 

Arthur raised a host, left Sir Mordred his son en a gift by a holy man, that his might was 
increased for the three hours before noon. Launcelot was troubled 
during this period, and thought Gawain must be a fiend as his strength 
grew. Then, after noon, Gawain had only his own strength. Launcelot 
smote his opponent down, but spared him and withdrew; though Gawain 
kept calling him a traitor knight. 

When Gawain was healed, they repeated the battle with the same result. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 21)

While Sir Mordred was ruler of England, en a gift by a holy man, that his might was 
increased for the three hours before noon. Launcelot was troubled 
during this period, and thought Gawain must be a fiend as his strength 
grew. Then, after noon, Gawain had only his own strength. Launcelot 
smote his opponent down, but spared him and withdrew; though Gawain 
kept calling him a traitor knight. 

When Gawain was healed, they repeated the battle with the same result. 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 21)

While Sir Mordred was ruler of England, he faked letters from overseas 
to show that Arthur was dead, made a Parliament, was chosen king and 
crowned at Canterbury. 

Mordred arranged to marry Guenever, but he let her go to London to buy 
things for the wedding and she escaped into the Tower of London and 
prepared its defence. Mordred besieged the tower, but could not enter 
and she mistrusted all his offers. 

The Bishop of Canterbury criticised Mordred over his desire to marry 
his father's wife, and threatened to curse him with bell, book and 
candle. Mordred threatened to kill the bishop and was excommunicated; 
then the bishop went to be a hermit at Glastonbury.  

Then word came that Arthur was returning with his army, to be revenged 
upon Mordred. Mordred raised his own host, saying that he wanted peace 
but that life under Arthur had been nothing but wars and strife, and 
gathered a large army because many people preferred him to Arthur.  

Arthur returned to at Dover and defeated Sir Mordred's army that 
opposed the landing. 

Sir Gawain was injured in the battle, re-opening an old wound caused 
by Launcelot, so that Gawain died by Launcelot's hand. But, as he lay 
dying, Gawain wrote a letter making peace with Launcelot and requiring 
him to return and help Arthur. 

Mordred's forces gathered upon Barnham Down, and in the morning Arthur 
rode there. Many people were slain on both sides, but Sir Arthur's 
party did best and Mordred fled to Canterbury. However, many people 
now joined Mordred, including those in England who loved Launcelot. 

Upon Trinity Sunday, Arthur dreamed he was on a chair held firm to a 
wheel (of Fortune), below which was a pit of water, serpents and foul 
wild beasts. Then the wheel turned upside-down. Next, Arthur dreamed 
that he met Sir Gawain, surrounded by the fair ladies he had fought 
for and by whose grace he had returned. Gawain said that Arthur should 
not fight tomorrow, but delay for a month. 

Arthur told the dream to his knights, and made a treaty with Mordred.

Arthur and Mordred met between their hosts, each bringing fourteen men, 
but each warned their hosts to be alert for treachery and to attack if 
they saw any sword drawn. 

They agreed the treaty and drank wine. But an adder emerged from a 
little heather bush and stung a knight; he unthinkingly drew his sword 
to slay the snake; and both hosts attacked at the signal. 

Many knights died in the battle. Mordred and Arthur fought; Mordred 
was killed and Arthur wounded so that he fell to the ground. Arthur 
cried out how he had missed Sir Launcelot in the battle. 

As Arthur lay dying, he ordered Sir Bedevere to throw Excalibur into a 
nearby water. Bedevere agreed, but hid the sword. Arthur asked what he 
had seen when he threw the sword, Bedevere said waves and winds, and 
Arthur knew he had not done so. The same events were repeated and 
Arthur called Bedevere a traitor. The third time, Bedevere really 
threw the sword, a hand from the water grabbed it, brandished it 
thrice, and took Excalibur down into the water. 

Then a little barge arrived, with many fair ladies in black hoods. 
Arthur told Bedevere to put him in the barge, which he did, and three 
queens (Morgan le Fay, the Queen of Northgales and Queen of the 
Wastelands)received Arthur with great mourning. Arthur laid his head 
in the lap of one queen, who greeted him as brother. Arthur said he 
was going to the Vale of Avilion, to heal his grievous wound, and the 
boat rowed away. 

Bedevere went he knew not where, and came to a hermit kneeling beside 
a new tomb in a chapel. Sir Bedevere recognised he who had recently 
been Bishop of Canterbury. The hermit described how a number of ladies 
had brought the corpse at midnight. Bedevere knew it was Arthur and 
stayed there serving the hermit; though in truth this was not certain 
and many people said that Arthur lived. 

When Guenever heard Arthur was slain, she went as a nun to Almesbury.

Eventually, news that Sir Mordred was crowned king reached Launcelot, 
followed joined them in prayer. 

Years later, a vision came to Launcelot that he must hasten to 
Almesbury. He was too weak to go quickly and arrived half an hour 
after Guenever's death. She was buried with great ceremony, in a 
marble coffin in Glastonbury. 

Launcelot then dwindled away and died six weeks later. At his request, 
he was buried in Joyous Gard. 

And Sir Constantine, son of Sir Cador of Cornwall, ruled England after 
Arthur. 

THUS ENDS THIS BOOK, LE MORTE D'ARTHUR joined them in prayer. 

Years later, a vision came to Launcelot that he must hasten to 
Almesbury. He was too weak to go quickly and arrived half an hour 
after Guenever's death. She was buried with great ceremony, in a 
marble coffin in Glastonbury. 

Launcelot then dwindled away and died six weeks later. At his request, 
he was buried in Joyous Gard. 

And Sir Constantine, son of Sir Cador of Cornwall, ruled England after 
Arthur. 

THUS ENDS THIS BOOK, LE MORTE D'ARTHUR