LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 1)

King Uther Pendragon lusted after Igraine, Duchess of Tintagel. She 
refused him, fled to Castle Terrabil and was besieged by Uther. With 
Merlin's help, Uther disguised himself as the Duke, seduced Igraine 
and begat Arthur. Three hours before, the Duke saw Uther apparantly 
leaving the battle, sallied forth in counter-attack and was killed.

Uther subsequently married Igraine, Arthur was born and given to 
Merlin, as promised for his help with the disguise. Merlin arranged 
for him to be brought up as Sir Ector's adopted son. Uther soon died 
and the realm was in jeopardy for many years.

One Christmas, Merlin advised the Archbishop of Canterbury to invite 
all the "gentlemen of arms" to London: a miracle would reveal the 
rightful king. Against the high alter, in the churchyard, appeared a
marble block and a steel anvil on top; piercing them was a sword 
enscribed, "Whosoever pulleth out this sword of this stone and anvil 
is rightwise king born of all England".

At the tournament for first attempt, Sir Ector's son Kay forgot his 
own sword and Arthur went to get one. Without realising, he grabbed 
the sword from the stone and gave it to Kay; as Kay eventually 
admitted. Arthur demonstrated replacing and removing the sword (which 
no one else can do); the lords were indignant, so the process was 
repeated at 12th Night, Candlemas, Easter and Pentecost. 

At Pentecost, Merlin revealed Arthur's father; he was crowned at 
Carleon in Wales and immediately hm, demonstrating his incest 
with Morgause and prophesying doom because of it. Queen Igraine was 
briefly accused of treason, until it was revealed that she had not 
known either, while Merlin, who had known, wasn't.

Arthur quarrelled and jousted with Sir Pellinor, neither knowing the 
other, and was rescued when Merlin magicked Pellinor asleep. A good 
leech cured Arthur's wounds and they continued to a broad lake. Merlin 
explained about the Lady of the Lake and Arthur accepted her sword and 
scm, demonstrating his incest 
with Morgause and prophesying doom because of it. Queen Igraine was 
briefly accused of treason, until it was revealed that she had not 
known either, while Merlin, who had known, wasn't.

Arthur quarrelled and jousted with Sir Pellinor, neither knowing the 
other, and was rescued when Merlin magicked Pellinor asleep. A good 
leech cured Arthur's wounds and they continued to a broad lake. Merlin 
explained about the Lady of the Lake and Arthur accepted her sword and 
scabbard (which prevented bleeding) in return for a future favour.

Merlin advised Arthur that "he that should destroy him should be born 
in May-day", so Arthur killed all lords' sons born then. (Mordred was 
reprieved when the ship carrying him from Orkney was wrecked; Mordred 
being rescued and cared for by a good man, until fourteen.) 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 2)

King Rience of North Wales demanded homage of Arthur, plus Arthur's 
beard to complete his cloak. Arthur was furious.

A damosel arrived at Camelot from the great lady, Lile of Avelion, 
girt with a sword that could only be pulled from its scabbard by a 
good knight without villainy, treachery or treason. When Arthur 
failed, the other knights of the round table were not keen to try. 
Balin (recently inprisoned for slaying a knight) eventually succeeded, 
but refused to return the sword and was doomed. 

When the Lady of the Lake arrived to ask for his head as her favour 
(she had set up the affair because of a prophesy that he who removed 
the sword would slay her brother), Balin, whose mother she had slain, 
killed her and fled in shame. Sir Lanceor followed Balin for revenge, 
but was killed; whereapon his girlfriend slew herself for love. King 
Mark built a tomb for them and Merlin decorated it. 

Balan, Balin's brother, joined up with him and Merlin prophesied that 
Balin would strike the dolorous stroke and cast three kingdoms into 
poverty, misery and wretchedness for twelve years. Then Merlin led 
them to King Rience and they wounded him and brought him to Arthur.

Nero and King Lot of Orkney attacked Arthur's army, but Merlin delayed 
Lot so that Arthur's army could meet and defeat the allies separately. 

Merlin mentioned the Holy Grail (Sangrail) for the first time and 
prophesied the battle at end of the book.

Two knights were separately slain by the invisible Garlon, while under 
Balin's conduct, so Balin sought revenge. Balin and a damosel arrived 
at a castle; their lady had lain sick for many years and could only be 
whole if she had a "dish of silver full of blood of a clean maid and a 
king's daughter". The damosel's blood had no effect.

Balin went to a feast held by King Pellam of Listinoise, met the black 
faced Garlon as prophesied, and killed him. Garlon's blood healed one 
of his victims. However, Garlon was King Pellam's brother; Garlon's 
sword was shattered by the King, he ran, grabbed a marvellous spear, 
and smote the King the Dolorous Stroke with it. King Pellam swooned 
and the castle collapsed about them.

Merlin arrived; the spear was that used against Jesus, King Pellam and 
his lands would not recover until Galahad healed him, and the damosel 
had died when the castle fell. Balin departed sadly.

Balin met a sad knight, Garnish of the Mount, and stopped him killing 
himself for love of a fair lady who had not kept her appointment. They 
rode to a castle, where Garnish killed the lady, her lover and himself.

Balin left hurridly and, three days later, came by a cross, "It is not 
for no knight alone to ride towards this castle". An old man warned 
him, but a hundred ladies and many knights welcomed him, before giving 
him a better shield (but without his emblem) and revealing the custom 
that visitors must fight the knight on a nearby island. This he did, 
neither recognising the other, and thus the brothers Balin and Balan 
slew each other. 

Merlin wrote "Here lieth Balin le Savage that was the knight with two 
swords and he that smote the dolorous stroke" on the tomb, replaced the 
pommel of Balin's sword and no one could handle it, except the best 
knight in the world (Lancelot or Galahad). He created a half-foot wide 
iron and steel bridge to the island, left the scabbard there and put 
the sword into a magic marble stone, so that it floated to Camelot.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 3) 

Arthur decided to get married to Guenever, daughter of King Leodegrance 
of Camelerd, owner of the Table Round. Merlin agreed about her good 
qualities, but warned  and white brachet ran into the hall. 
A knight took the brachet; a lady rode in to claim it but another 
knight rode in and took her away by force.

Gawain went hunting the hart, with Gaheris his brother. He met two 
brothers fighting; Sourlouse and Brian of the Forest yielded to him 
and were sent to Arthur. Then Gawain defeated Alardin.

Gawain and Gaheris followed the hart into a castle; its owner, whose 
hart it was, killed two hounds and Gawain killed the hart. Gawain 
defeated the knight an and white brachet ran into the hall. 
A knight took the brachet; a lady rode in to claim it but another 
knight rode in and took her away by force.

Gawain went hunting the hart, with Gaheris his brother. He met two 
brothers fighting; Sourlouse and Brian of the Forest yielded to him 
and were sent to Arthur. Then Gawain defeated Alardin.

Gawain and Gaheris followed the hart into a castle; its owner, whose 
hart it was, killed two hounds and Gawain killed the hart. Gawain 
defeated the knight and would have killed him had his lady not fallen 
in the way and been beheaded instead. Gawain reprieved Ablamor and 
sent him to Arthur.   

While Gawain and Gaheris prepared to sleep in the castle, four knights 
attacked and would have killed them, had not four ladies pleaded for 
their lives. Gawain was freed and returned to Camelot, bearing the dead 
lady's body across his horse, and her head hanged about his neck. Once 
there, he promised to always show mercy in future.

Sir Tor rode after the knight with the brachet. He was stopped by a 
dwarf, who smote his horse on the head and summoned two knights from 
a nearby pavilion. Tor defeated both and sent them to Arthur. 

The dwarf wanted to serve Tor and lead him after the brachet, to a 
priory beside two pavilions and two shields; red and white. Sir Tor 
took the brachet from a damosel there. While returning to Camelot he 
was pursued by and overcame the knight, who was called Abellus.

A damosel revealed Abellus had murdered her brother, so Tor killed him,
spent the night with her and returned Abellus' body to Camelot. 
 
King Pellinor rode after the knight who had taken the lady. He met a 
damosel beside a well, with a wounded knight in her arms, but was eager 
in his quest and refused her pleas for help.

King Pellinor came upon two knights fighting for the lady; the one he 
sought and her cousin. He killed Sir Hontzlake and the cousin, Sir 
Meliot of Logris, yielded. The lady was called Nimue.

King Pellinor returned with Nimue to Camelot, passing the well. The 
wounded knight had died and the damosel (who Pellinor learned was his 
daughter) had killed herself. Because of this, Pellinor was doomed to 
be killed by the man he most trusted.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 4)

Merlin was besotted with Nimue, and she made him good cheer until she 
had learned of him all manner thing that she desired. Merlin fortold 
his imminent fate to Arthur. 

Merlin swore never to use magic against Nimue and went everywhere with 
her. Eventually she wanted to be rid of him, tricked him under a rock 
to look at the marvels, and Merlin never came out. 

The Kings of Denmark, Ireland, the Vale, Solseye and the Isle of 
Longtains invaded. Arthur's host was defeated, but while he, Guenever, 
Kay, Gawain and Griflet were about to escape across the Humber, they 
saw the five kings by themselves, attacked and killed them all. Then 
Arthur counter-attacked and annhialated the invading army.

Arthur replaced the eight Round Table knights who had been killed, 
passing over Sir Bagdemagus. He was wroth and departed; passed a 
prophetic cross; found a branch of a holy herb, a sign of the Sangrail; 
found Merlin's rock but could not free him; had many other adventures; 
returned to the court and was made knight of the Round Table.

Arthur, King Uriens and Sir Accolon of Gaul were hunting a great hart, 
slew their horses underneath them, followed on foot and trapped it on 
a sandbank. Along floated a little ship, richly behanged with silk, but 
apparantly empty. Twelve fair damosels welcomed King Arthur and his two 
fellows. And, on the morrow, King Uriens woke in Camelot, in the arms 
of his wife, Morgan le Fay, while King Arthur woke in a dark prison.

Arthur had joined twenty knights as a prisoner of vile Sir Damas, 
locked up until one would agree to fight as his champion against good 
Sir Ontzlake. Arthur agreed. 

Meanwhile, Sir Accolon woke on the brink of a well and was given 
Excalibur, and its scabbard, by a dwarf servant from Queen Morgan le 
Fay. Accolon lodged with Sir Ontzlake and was there when Sir Damas' 
challenge was received. As Sir Ontzlake was recovering from recent 
wounds, Sir Accolon agreed to fight in his stead.

The battle was fierce, with both Arthur and Accolon wounded, though 
only Arthur bled, until Arthur's sword broke. Arthur would not yield 
and was about to be killed when the damosel of the lake magically 
knocked Excalibur from Accolon's hand. Arthur grabbed and recognised 
it, pulled the snd stealing 
Excalibur's scabbard. Arthur woke later and pursued her, but she threw 
the scabbard into a lake and escaped by shaping herself into a great 
marble stone until he had left.

Morgan le Fay rescued Manassen, cousin of Accolon of Gaul, from being 
drowned for adultery - and drowned his accuser instead. She sent 
Manassen to Arthur with the message that he had been saved for the 
love of Accolon, not Arthur who she feared not while she could become 
stone. Then she departed through the cond stealing 
Excalibur's scabbard. Arthur woke later and pursued her, but she threw 
the scabbard into a lake and escaped by shaping herself into a great 
marble stone until he had left.

Morgan le Fay rescued Manassen, cousin of Accolon of Gaul, from being 
drowned for adultery - and drowned his accuser instead. She sent 
Manassen to Arthur with the message that he had been saved for the 
love of Accolon, not Arthur who she feared not while she could become 
stone. Then she departed through the country of Gore.

Arthur swore revenge against Morgan, but was pleased when she sent him 
the richest mantle ever seen at court. However, the Damosel of the 
Lake warned him not to wear it, so he made the damosel who had brought 
it from Morgan do so instead, with fatal results.

Sir Uwain was banished for not reporting Morgan's villainy, and Gawain 
volunteered to go with him. They rode until they came to two knights 
and twelve damosels beside a turret in a great forest. The damosels 
spat and threw mud at a white shield, belonging to Sir Marhaus who 
they said hated ladies. He returned, slew the knights (the damosels 
fled), fought Gawain to a standstill, said the damosels were 
sorceresses and accompanied Uwain and Gawain to the country of Arroy.
 
They met three damosels beside a fountain. They separated, Marhaus 
with the 60 year-old, Uwain the 30 year-old and Gawain the 15 year-old, 
agreeing to meet in a year.

Gawain encountered a knight who unhorsed ten others, yet allowed them 
to bind him under his horse's belly and lead him away. A knight and a 
dwarf arrived and fought for a lady, before agreeing to let Sir Gawain 
decide between them. Gawain let the lady decide; she picked the dwarf.
Two more knights arrived, one fought Gawain well, while the other asked 
the Damosel to leave Gawain for him - she agreed, because Gawain hadn't 
helped the first knight (Sir Pellas) when he was bound.

Sir Pellas had submitted in order to meet Lady Ettard, who despised 
him. Gawain visited him, learnt the story, borrowed his horse and 
armour and pretended to have slain him. Lady Ettard was very sad, but 
promised to help Gawain win the love of his lady and was held to this 
when he said she was the one. 

Three days later, Sir Pellas found them together but was too noble to 
kill them. Nimue, the Damosel of the Lake, enchanted Ettard and she 
realised she loved Pellard; but he now hated her. Lady Ettard died of 
sorrow, but Nimue and Pellard spent their lives together.

Sir Marhaus met the Duke of South Marches, whose seven sons had been 
killed by Gawain, and was challenged. He defeated the Duke and his six 
sons, then defeated forty knights in a tournament. Taulurd the giant 
was destroying the lands, so Marhaus fought him, chased the giant into 
the water and killed him with rocks. Then Marhaus freed the giant's 
prisoners and, returning to the meeting, defeated four knights.

Sir Uwain defeated thirty knights in a tournament, had many adventures, 
then met the Lady of the Rock who had been disinherited by Sirs Edward 
and Hugh of the Red Castle. Uwain was wounded but defeated them both. 

At the end of the year, Gawain, Marhaus and Gawain met at the fountain, 
left their damosels and returned to Camelot.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 5)

King Arthur was resting and feasting after a long war, when twelve old 
men arrived; messengers from Emperor Lucius of Rome. He commanded 
Arthur to acknowledge him as lord, and pay tribute, or else Lucius 
would make strong war against Arthur.

Arthur held a Parliament at York, took advice, decided he had a claim 
to be emperor of Rome himself, and sent the messenger away with gifts 
and the same ultimatum in reverse. Lucius gathered a huge army 
and marched through Arthur's lands in France.

Arthur set sail with his army from Sandwich, leaving Baudwin and 
Constantine in charge. On the night before they landed at Barflete in 
Flanders, Arthur dreamed of a dragon from the west defeating a boar 
from the east.

Arthur learned of a Giant who lived on St Michael's Mount and ate lots 
of people. He fought the Giant and slew him in spectacular fashion.

Arthur learned of the destruction caused by Lucius in Burgundy and sent 
Gawain, Bors, Lionel and Bedevere to tell him to leave - or, if Lucius 
would not, to bid him fight Arthur and not the common people. Lucius 
challenged Arthur in return.

Sir Gainus, cousin to the emperor, accused the Britons of boasting, so 
Gawain slew him. They escaped, followed by the Roman knighorth King Leomie, 
with a great army previously held in reserve. Arthur took up the 
surrounding towns and dispersed parties to block any Roman escapers; 
then joined battle in the vale of Sessoine. Arthur slew Lucius in 
individual combat, and a hundred thousand Romans and Saracens were 
killed. He sent three surviving Senators back to Rome with the noble 
Roman bodies; they advised the Protestate and Senate to make Peace.

Arthur consolidated France. While beseiging a stubborn city in Tuscany, 
horth King Leomie, 
with a great army previously held in reserve. Arthur took up the 
surrounding towns and dispersed parties to block any Roman escapers; 
then joined battle in the vale of Sessoine. Arthur slew Lucius in 
individual combat, and a hundred thousand Romans and Saracens were 
killed. He sent three surviving Senators back to Rome with the noble 
Roman bodies; they advised the Protestate and Senate to make Peace.

Arthur consolidated France. While beseiging a stubborn city in Tuscany, 
he sent his nephew Sir Wisshard, Gawain, Clegis, Cleremond and the 
Captain of Cardiff out foraging.

Gawain met and defeated a Saracen knight, Sir Priamus. Sir Priamus 
yielded, became Christian, helped Gawain to escape from a French army 
and cured both their wounds with balm from a vial full of the four 
waters that came out of Paradise. Then Gawain etc and their army were 
attacked by Saracens, but proved victorious and returned to Arthur.

Arthur asked about Priamus and he was babtised and made a knight of 
the Round Table. Then Arthur attacked the city, filling the moat and 
breaking the walls, and its people surrended, sending out damosels to 
plead for peace, and the duke's eldest son with the keys. 

This was the last serious resistance to Arthur. He rode towards Rome, 
winning cities and laying waste those which would not obey, until 
he reached Rome and was crowned Emperor by the Pope. Then Arthur 
returned to England in triumph.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 6)

Launcelot improved so much in jousts and tournaments that he was soon 
unbeatable. And the love between Launcelot and Guenever grew, though 
he was too chivalrous to take advantage. Next, Launcelot decided to 
prove himself in strange adventures and rode off with Sir Lionel.

Lionel saw an apple tree and there they rested; Lionel on guard. Three 
knights fled past, pursued by one knight who knocked them down in turn 
and tied them up. Lionel left Launcelot sleeping, challenged the knight 
and was defeated and bound too; then beaten and imprisoned.

Sir Ector de Maris was annoyed that Launcelot had left, without him, 
and followed. A forester directed him to a manor, beside which grew a 
tree, hung about with shields including that of Lionel, his brother. 
Ector struck a basin of copper that was there, summoning the strong 
knight (Sir Turquin), who defeated, stripped, beat with thorns and 
imprisoned him in turn.

Four queens rode up, shaded by four knights with a canopy, and each 
wanted Launcelot for her love. Queen Morgan le Fay enchanted him asleep 
for six hours and he was carried to castle Chariot, there to choose 
between the queens. A damosel brought him supper. Next morning the 
queens entered, explaining that Launcelot would not see Guenever again, 
and should choose one of them for his new love. He refused them all.

The damosel freed Launcelot, asking him to help her father, King 
Bagdemagus, at a forthcoming tournament. He agreed to help her whevever 
she wanted.  

Launcelot was lost in the forest; encountered a red pavilion and slept 
in bed there. Its owner returned and, thinking the sleeper was his love, 
kissed Laucelot. They fought, Sir Bellus was wounded, but the situation 
was explained and Launcelot staunched his blood. 

Launcelot met Bagdemagus in an abbey and told his story. In the 
tournament, Launcelot fought for King Bagdemagus and was victorious 
over the King of Northgales' knights. 

Launcelot departed and eventually found himself in the forest where he 
had slept and been captured. He spoke with a damosel, who told of Sir 
Turquin and his prisoners, and said they might be well matched. They 
rode to the manor and met Turquin, who had just captured Sir Gaheris.

They fought for a long while. When he saw the quality of his opponent, 
Turquin offered fellowship unless he was Launcelot, the slayer of 
his brother and the cause of his vendetta against the Round Table. 
Launcelot revealed his identity and the fight continued fiercely until 
Turquin was killed. 

Launcelot left Gaheris to free everyone (Lionel, Ector and Kay later 
rode after Launcelot, to find him if they might), then left with the 
damosel. She said he should get married, not least to quell the rumours 
about him and Guenever, but Launcelot disagreed.

Launcelot crossed a bridge, killing its keeper who attacked him. And, 
ignoring the complaints of the locals, he entered the castle there. Two 
giants attacked, but Launcelot killed them and freed three score ladies 
and damosels, who had bhe defeated them and Gawain suspected who he was. 

Launcelot saw and followed a black brachet, along a trail of blood, and 
found a dead knight, Sir Gilbert, in an decrepit manor. A damosel spoke 
out against his killer, who she said was wounded. Launcelot left and 
met the damosel from a while back, who he had promised to serve; she 
asked him to help her wounded brother, a Round Table knight called 
Meliot. He agreed to fetch a sword and a bloody cloth from the Chapel 
Perilous.

Thirty great (he defeated them and Gawain suspected who he was. 

Launcelot saw and followed a black brachet, along a trail of blood, and 
found a dead knight, Sir Gilbert, in an decrepit manor. A damosel spoke 
out against his killer, who she said was wounded. Launcelot left and 
met the damosel from a while back, who he had promised to serve; she 
asked him to help her wounded brother, a Round Table knight called 
Meliot. He agreed to fetch a sword and a bloody cloth from the Chapel 
Perilous.

Thirty great (9 foot) knights guarded the chapel, but Launcelot forced 
a way part them; ignoring their threats to lay down his sword or die. 
A damosel asked him to put aside his sword, or never see Guenever 
again, and to kiss her once. Launcelot refused and left; Hellawes the 
sorceress, of Castle Nigramous, died of love for him two weeks later.
 
Launcelot returned with the cloth and sword, met Sir Meliot's sister 
again, touched the knight's wounds with Sir Gilbert's sword and wiped 
them with the cloth and cured them. Launcelot sent Gilbert to court.

After more adventures, Launcelot answered a lady's pleas to climb a 
tree after her falcon. He removed his armour and did so; whereapon her 
husband, Sir Phelot, emerged from the groves and called on Launcelot 
to surrender. Launcelot hit him with a branch and killed him.

Later, Launcelot came upon a knight chasing his lady, thinking to slay 
her. She cried to Launcelot for help and he agreed, but the treacherous 
knight distracted him with a trick and chopped off the lady's head, 
grabbing Launcelot and pleading for mercy. Pedivere was made to carry 
her head to Guenever, who was not pleased. She sent him to the Pope, 
he sent him back and eventually Sir Pedivere became holy.   

Finally, Launcelot returned to court, those defeated by "Sir Kay" were 
relieved to find who he really was, and Launcelot was honoured as the 
best knight in the world.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 7)

A good-looking young man arrived at the feast of Pentecost and asked 
three gifts of Arthur; the first being his keep for a year. Arthur 
agreed, but Sir Kay mocked "Beaumains" for not requesting a noble gift, 
saying he should stay in the kitchens and get fat.

Sir Launcelot and Gawain offered the lad to stay with them, but he 
refused sadly, doing as Sir Kay said. Beaumains watched jousts and 
trained whenever he could, throwing two yards further than the best. 

A damosel arrived at Whitsuntide, asking Arthur to help her besieged 
lady against the Red Night of the Red Launds, who was destroying her 
lands. The damosel left in disgust when Beaumains asked that he be 
allowed to go, Launcelot having knighted him, and Arthur agreed.

Sir Kay rode after Beaumains and was knocked down and wounded. Then Sir 
Launcelot jousted with Beaumains; they knocked each other off their 
horses and fought on foot, until Launcelot stopped the fight, lest he 
be defeated and shamed. Then Beaumains revealed that he was Gawain's 
full brother, Gareth, and Launcelot knighted him.

Beaumains followed the damosel, ignoring her taunts about him stinking 
of grease. She was not impressed when he freed a knight from six 
thieves, but spoke harshly when he sat before she did at supper. And 
the next day she claimed it was luck when he killed two knights who 
barred a ford, and chided him ceaselessly.

That evening, they came to a black laund (glade), where sat the Knight 
of the Black Launds. The damosel provoked a fight, the Knight was slain 
and Beaumains was wounded. Beaumains took the Black Knight's Armour. 
When they met the Green Knight, brother to the black one, the damosel 
said, "this unhappy kitchen knave hath slain your brother through 
unhappiness"; the Green Knight was angered to hear his brother had been 
killed shamefully, attacked Beaumains and was defeated. Beaumains 
refused to spare his life until the damosel asked.

They lodged at the Green Knight's manor, and still the damosel rebuked 
Beaumains, though the Green Knight praised him and promised service. 
Then Beaumains and the damosel came to a tower, white as snow, where 
lived the Red Knight. And events went as with the Green Knight.

As they rode, Beaumains asked the damosel not to complain unless he 
gave her reason; she replied that they would soon meet a knight who 
would beat him. But Sir Persant of Inde was forced to yield.

Sir Persant sent his virgin daughter to Beaumain's bed, but he kissed 
her and sent her back. Sir Persant was impressed. In the morning, 
Beaumains and the damosestle and, after ten days rest, was 
sent to court to ask Launcelot and Gawain for mercy.

Beaumains asked to see Lynet's sister, his lady, but the drawbridge 
was closed. Lyonesse called down that she could not wholly love him, 
until he was called a worthy knight. She told him to labour for a year 
and that she would be true to him. Beaumains left sadly.

Lady Lyonesse asked her brother, Sir Gringamore, to kidnap Beaumain's 
dwarf, to learn his master's name. All went well, and they discovered 
tstle and, after ten days rest, was 
sent to court to ask Launcelot and Gawain for mercy.

Beaumains asked to see Lynet's sister, his lady, but the drawbridge 
was closed. Lyonesse called down that she could not wholly love him, 
until he was called a worthy knight. She told him to labour for a year 
and that she would be true to him. Beaumains left sadly.

Lady Lyonesse asked her brother, Sir Gringamore, to kidnap Beaumain's 
dwarf, to learn his master's name. All went well, and they discovered 
that Beaumains was Sir Gareth of Orkney, son of Arthur's sister and 
brother of Gawain. Gareth challenged Gringamore for the return of the 
dwarf, until Lyoness got her brother to return him.

Lyoness explained everything, including that she was the lady of the 
Castle Perilous that Gareth had come to fight for, and promised to 
always love him. 

Lyoness intended to come to Gareth that night, but Lynet was jealous
and sent a magic knight to attack him. Gareth survived the assault, 
though he had to fight unarmoured and was wouded; they subsequently 
discovered Lynet's part in the affair when she was seen annointing the 
head and setting it back on the knight's body.

Much the same thing happened ten days later, except that Gareth diced 
the knight's head into tiny pieces, and the fight reopened his wounds.
Lynet annointed the gobbets and set them together again, but Gareth 
could only be cured by he who caused the wound, and Lynet denied all.

Meanwhile at Pentecost, the Green, Red and Blue Knight (Pertolepe) 
arrived at court and yielded to King Arthur, praising Beaumains. And 
the Red Knight of the Red Launds, Sir Ironside, did likewise and was 
made a knight of the Round Table. 

Then Queen Morgause of Orkney, Arthur's sister, arrived to find what 
had happened to Gareth. She was not pleased to learn of Sir Kay's 
taunts, but was happy that Gareth seemed to have done well. Arthur 
sent a messenger, summoning Dame Lyonesse to tell all.

Dame Lyonesse consulted with Gareth and Gringamore. She was to say she 
knew not where Gareth was, but was to arrange a tournament with her 
lands as the prize. This she did, then returned. Gareth could not take 
part unless he was healed, so Lynet was induced to cure him.

The tournament went on for many pages, with Sir Gareth disguised first 
in many colours, then in yellow. He was beating everyone in the mele, 
but escaped when recognised. 

Gareth lodged in the castle of the Duke de la Rowse; was attacked by 
Sir Bendelaine and then by twenty of his men, but slew them; killed 
the Brown Knight without Pity (Sir Breunis Saunce Pite) and freed his 
captive ladies; defeated and spared the Duke de la Rowse; then met 
and fought his brother Gawain, neither recognising the other: Lynet, 
the Damosel Savage, came riding up and revealed their identities. 

Everyone met up and Gareth and Lyonesse were married. 

(Gareth henceforth avoided his brother, Gawain, and preferred the 
company of Launcelot. He felt bitter, perhaps because Gawain had not 
recognised him at court, and so caused all his problems.) 

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 8)

King Meliodas of Liones was a likely knight and married Elizabeth, 
the sister of King Mark of Cornwall, and they loved each other. 

While Elizabeth was pregnant, Meliodas rode out hunting and was 
enchanted and imprisoned by a lady who had long loved him. Elizabeth 
was nearly out of her wits; went into the forest looking for him, with 
only a gentlewoman for company; gave birth to her child and died of 
cold, naming the child Tristram because of his sorrowful birth.

Some of the lords would have killed the baby, thinking Meliodas was 
already dead and this deed would open their way to their throne, but 
the gentlewoman pleaded successfully for his life. And, on the next 
day, Merlin rescued King Meliodas.

Tristram flourished for seven years, until the King remarried, choosing 
the daughter of King Howel of Brittany. She soon had children and 
wanted them to inherit the kingdom, so she decided to poison Tristram. 
However the queen's own son was thirsty, saw the poison, drank it down 
and died. The queen tried again, but this time King Meliodas chose the 
poison and she grabbed it from it. 

The King realised what was going on, and ordered the queen burnt, but 
Tristram pleaded for her life. Thereafter, King Meliodas had nothing to 
do with his wife, and sent Tristram away.

Tristram was sent to France with Gouvernail, a learned gentleman, and 
stayed for seven years. Tristram becams "abode in the sea" and sent every day to King Mark, asking 
him to pay the tribute, or else produce a knight to fight for it. King 
Mark did not think any other Round Table knight would want to fight 
against their fellow, and could find no local champion.. until Tristram 
learned of the affair.

Tristram told his father it was shameful that no Cornish knight would 
fight to free Cornwall from paying tribute. King Meliodas agreed and 
Tristram rode to King Mark and was knighted. (Meanwhile, King Fs "abode in the sea" and sent every day to King Mark, asking 
him to pay the tribute, or else produce a knight to fight for it. King 
Mark did not think any other Round Table knight would want to fight 
against their fellow, and could find no local champion.. until Tristram 
learned of the affair.

Tristram told his father it was shameful that no Cornish knight would 
fight to free Cornwall from paying tribute. King Meliodas agreed and 
Tristram rode to King Mark and was knighted. (Meanwhile, King Faramon 
of France's daughter wrote to Tristram expressing her love. He did not 
love her and she died.) Marhaus would only fight with a knight of royal 
blood, which Tristram was, so they agreed to meet on an island.

After talking, they charged together fiercely and smote one another 
down, Sir Tristram being wounded by Marhaus' spear. They then fought 
on foot for more than half a day, until Tristram proved fresher than 
Sir Marhaus and smote him a mighty stroke on the helm. 

Marhaus surrendered and returned to Ireland, where he died. The queen, 
his sister, found a piece of Tristram's sword still in his head and 
kept it with her, intending to be revenged.

Tristram lay for a month, near to dying from the spear wound, until a 
wise lady revealed that he would never be whole unless he received help 
in the same country that the venom came from. So Tristram, calling 
himself Tramtrist, sailed to Ireland and played the harp as he lay in 
his bed. The king and queen learned of this unique harper and summoned 
him; Tramtrist pretended to be sorry to learn Marhaus' fate.

Tramtrist was cured by the king's daughter, La Beale Isoud, who was the 
fairest maid in the world. Tramtrist taught her to play the harp and 
fell in love with her. But Sir Palomides loved her too, gave her many 
gifts and promised to be christened for her sake. Thus Tramtrist and 
Sir Palomides were rivals.

A tournament was held and La Beale Isoud arranged armour for Tristram. 
By chance Tristram's squire, Hebes le Renoumes, was there; Tristram 
swore him to secrecy, but Isoud had observed their meeting. 

Tramtrist defeated everyone at the tournament, including Sir Palonides, 
and made him forswear La Beale Isoud. (One damosel even thought 
Tramtrist must be Sir Launcelot, until he revealed his face.)

Sir Tramtrist stayed happily with the king and queen for a long time. 
Then, when he was in the bath, the queen examined Tramtrist's sword 
where it lay, and noticed a broken place which matched the fragment 
from Marhaus' wound. She accused Tramtrist of treachery and the king 
insisted that he give his proper name and background. This Tristram 
did. Then he gave a ring to Isoud, took his leave from the barons at 
the Irish court, offering to face any who he had wronged (there were 
no takers) and returned to Cornwall.

Tristram's father, King Meliodas, gave most of his kingdom to Tristram, 
who then returned to the court of King Mark of Cornwall. 

A long time later, King Mark and Sir Tristram became jealous because 
both loved one lady; the wife of an earl, Sir Segwarides. The lady 
loved Sir Tristram, and this angered the king. The lady sent a dwarf 
to Sir Tristram, arranging for him to meet her that knight, and 
afterwards the King sent for the dwarf and forced him to tell all. 

King Mark then lay in ambush for Tristram, with two other knights, and 
the three hurtled down on Sir Tristram. The two knights were killed 
and King Mark left injured on the ground, and thereafter he hated 
Tristram.

Tristram was badly wounded, but continued to the lady. In the morning, 
Sir Segwarides, the husband, found Tristram's blood on the sheets and 
forced his wife to identify her lover. Sir Segwarides was wounded in 
the resulting fight.

Many weeks passed. Then the good knight of the Round Table, Sir 
Bleoberis de Ganis came to the court and asked a boon. When this was 
granted, he requested the fairest lady in the court; Sir Segwarides'
wife. Sir Segwarides armed and rode to rescue his wife. All the court 
were angry that she had been taken and, when news came that Segwarides 
was wounded, Tristram was ashamed and rode after Bleoberis himself.

On the way, Tristram met with his cousin, Sir Andred, who had been sent 
by King Mark to fetch two knights of King Arthur's court, who were 
adventuring in Cornwall. They had refused to come, and one had beat and 
wounded Andred, so Tristram promised revenge if he met them.

Tristram jousted and defeated Sir Dodinas le Savage and Sir Sagramore, , was challenged 
by Sir Ector and Sir Morganor, and defeated them. 

King Agwisance was summoned to King Arthur's court for treason. Arthur 
could not be there, but appointed King Carados and the King of Scots as 
judges. Sir Blamor of Ganis was the accuser, for Agwisance had slain a 
cousin of his, so Agwisance had the option of challenging him, but he 
was worried about Blamor's skill.

Meanwhile, a lady appealed to Sir Tristram for help; she had been sent 
by her lady to Sir Launcelot, bearing, was challenged 
by Sir Ector and Sir Morganor, and defeated them. 

King Agwisance was summoned to King Arthur's court for treason. Arthur 
could not be there, but appointed King Carados and the King of Scots as 
judges. Sir Blamor of Ganis was the accuser, for Agwisance had slain a 
cousin of his, so Agwisance had the option of challenging him, but he 
was worried about Blamor's skill.

Meanwhile, a lady appealed to Sir Tristram for help; she had been sent 
by her lady to Sir Launcelot, bearing a shield, when a knight stole it. 
Tristram defeated this knight, Breunis Saunce Pite, retrieved the 
shield and returned to his pavilion.

Sir Tristram learned that King Agwisance needed a champion and realised 
this was a chance to make amends. The King offered him whatever he 
wanted in return. Meanwhile, Bleoberis reminded Blamor that they were 
kin of Sir Launcelot, and Blamor promised to die before he would yield.

In the battle, Tristram and Blamor fought fiercely, until Tristram 
struck Blamor on the helm, so that he fell on his side and Tristram 
stood over him. Blamor would not yield, and Tristram did not want to 
kill him, so he went to the Kings that were judges for a decision. 

They found the King of Ireland was in the right, spared Blamor, and 
everyone loved Tristram. Then he sailed with King Agwisance to Ireland. 
And La Beale Isoud loved Sir Tristram best of all.

One day King Agwisance asked Sir Tristram why he had not yet asked for 
his boon, and Tristram asked for Isoud; that she be married to King 
Mark. The King agreed, though he would rather Tristram married her. On 
the voyage, Tristram and Isoud drank a drink provided by her mother and 
they loved each other so well that this love lasted all their lives.

By chance, they landed near Castle Pleure, the weeping castle, and were 
captured and imprisoned. Unless Tristram could beat its lord, Breunor, 
he would die. And if Tristram won, the lord would die. Likewise, only 
the fairer lady would live; for this was the custom of that castle. 

Tristram thought it a foul custom, but presented Isoud and everyone 
agreed she was fairer. Tristram chopped off the other lady's head, 
fought Sir Breunor for Isoud and, after two hours killed him. Everyone 
sowre fealty to Tristram and asked him to stay and end the custom.

Sir Breunor's son, Galahaut the Haut Prince, returned in the company of 
the King with the Hundred Knights and challenged Tristram. Tristram was 
beating Galahaut, but then the other knights advanced on Tristram and 
he yielded, offering his sword to Galahaut. The King was angry, but 
Galahaut spared Tristram because his father had died fairly, by the 
custom that he had enforced. 

Galahaut asked Tristram that, if he were in the area, he should visit 
Sir Launcelot du Lake and accompany him. And he promised that the foul 
custom would not be reintroduced in the castle. Tristram heard the tale 
of how Launcelot had rescued Gawain, who had been captured and tied 
across a horse by the mighty king Sir Carados, knew Launcelot for a 
noble knight and would of gone there. But he was following King Mark's 
command and had to take Isoud to Cornwall.

The barons met them in Cornwall, Isoud married King Mark and Sir 
Tristram was praised above all others in the wedding tournament. 

Some time later, Isoud's lady, Dame Bragwaine, was kidnapped. By good 
fortune, Sir Palomides rescued her and returned her to Isoud, who 
ill-advisedly offered him a boon. And Palomides went before the king, 
asked for judgement on her promise, and chose that Isoud should go with 
him. King Mark agreed, knowing that Tristram would rescue her. 

Tristram could not be found, so Sir Lambegus rode after Palomides and 
was defeated. Isoud escaped into the forest and would have drowned 
herself in a well, but Sir Adtherp took her to safety in a castle 
before challenging and being beaten by Palomides. Palomides then set 
himself down outside the barred castle gate.

Tristram followed and fought Sir Palomides, but Isoud could not bear 
this and made them stop. Isoud send Palomides to King Arthur's court 
with a message for Guenever; that there were withing this land but four 
lovers, Launcelot and Guenever and Tristram and Isoud. 

Tristram returned the queen to King Mark and there was great joy. 

But Sir Andred lay in watch, looking for evidence with which to slander 
Tristram and Isoud. He reported one meeting to King Mark, who commanded 
that Tristram be slain, but no one moved and Tristram knocked the  protest, knocking Lamorak down. 
Tristram refused to continue the uneven contest on foot and Sir 
Lamorak departed angrily.
  
Lamorak and Driant then met with a knight sent from Morgan le Fay to 
King Arthur, bearing a magic horn which a lady could only drink from if 
she were true to her husband. Otherwise, the drink would spill. It was 
intended against Launcelot, but Lamorak sent it to King Mark first.

The King made Queen Isoud and a hundred ladies drink from it, and only 
four drank cleanly protest, knocking Lamorak down. 
Tristram refused to continue the uneven contest on foot and Sir 
Lamorak departed angrily.
  
Lamorak and Driant then met with a knight sent from Morgan le Fay to 
King Arthur, bearing a magic horn which a lady could only drink from if 
she were true to her husband. Otherwise, the drink would spill. It was 
intended against Launcelot, but Lamorak sent it to King Mark first.

The King made Queen Isoud and a hundred ladies drink from it, and only 
four drank cleanly. King Mark swore that they should be burned, but the 
barons refused because the horn had been made by evil sorcery.

Sir Andred continued to spy on Tristram, and sent twelve knights to 
capture him while naked in bed with La Beale Isoud. Tristram was tied 
until daybreak and taken to a chapel on the shore for judgement, where 
he pleaded the service he had done Cornwall in the past. 

Andred was enraged and attacked Tristram, but he freed his hands from 
the knights guarding him, took Andred's sword and struck him down. Then 
Tristram fought his way inside the chapel, barred the door and leapt 
from a window into the sea.

Tristram's men rescued him and then, hearing Isoud was imprisoned in a 
leper hut, he rescued her and they went into the forest. Then Tristram 
was wounded by an arrow and Isoud recaptured and hidden by King Mark.

Isoud got word to Tristram to go to Brittany, where King Howel's 
daughter, Isoud la Blanche Mains, would cure him. And so it happened.

Tristram slew Earl Grip and defeated the army attacking King Howel. 
Then he married Isoud la Blanch Mains, though the memory of La Beale 
Isoud continued to haunt him. 

Launcelot, learning of Tristram's marriage, declared emnity and 
condemned him for being unfaithful to his first love. La Beale Isoud 
wrote to Guenever protesting the "lies" told about Tristram, and 
Guenever replied, saying that women could lure men by sorcery but that 
Tristram would hate his wife and love La Beale Isoud in the end.

Meanwhile, Sir Lamorak de Gales was shipwrecked; everyone else died, 
but he was rescued by fisherman and taken to the Isle of Servage. The 
lord of that isle was Sir Nabon le Noir, the giant, who hated all 
King Arthur's knights, so Sir Lamorak asked to be hidden until he had 
recovered, when he would fight the giant.

Tristram and his wife went sailing in a barge, but were blown to the 
coast of Wales and also landed on the Isle of Servage. There they met 
Sir Segwarides, who hated Tristram because of the earlier affair with 
his wife, but put his resentment nobly aside. And then Tristram met 
Sir Lamorak and they did likewise. 

Tristram fought and slew Sir Nabon le Noir and his son, then gave the 
island to Sir Segwarides. Segwarides freed the prisoners, set good 
governance and went to Cornwall, where he proclaimed the story. And La 
Beale Isoud was very unhappy to hear of Tristram's mariage.

Tristram's wife returned to Brittany. Sir Lamorak rode towards Arthur's 
court and came upon a hermit, who he reassured with news that Nabon's 
days were over. Then he found four knights attacking one; the one 
defended himself well but eventually they had him down. Lamorak bid 
them stop, they refused, Lamorak slew two and the others fled. 

The lone knight, Sir Froll of the Out Isles, accompanied Sir Lamorak. 
Then they met a White Knight, Lamorak was wary but Froll jousted with 
him and was thrown down. This was not surprising as the White Knight 
was Launcelot du Lake, though Lamorak would not reveal this to Froll 
and he departed angrily.

Within a few days, Sir Lamorak found a knight sleeping at a well, with 
his lady sitting beside. Sir Gawain rode up and took the lady. Lamorak 
challenged Gawain, but Gawain attacked the knight whose lady it was, 
and this knight smote Gawain down.

Lamorak had in honour to revenge Gawain, jousted with the knight and 
slew him. Then the lady rode to the knight's brother, Sir Belliance, 
and he rode after Lamorak for revenge. Because of the death of his 
sons, Sir Belliance already hated Lamorak, and Lamorak knelt and asked 
his grace. 

Sir Belliance insisted that Lamorak fought; the battle was fierce; both 
were wounded and Belliance was defeated. Lamorak led him to an abbey, 
where he stayed until Belliance was cured, and they both swore not to 
fight each other. Then Sir Lamorak rode to the court of King Arthur.

LE MORTE D'ARTHUR (BOOK 9)

Breunor le Noir arrived at Arthur's court, having sworn to wear the 
coat of his murdered father until his appearance.

Sir Kay sent Sir Dagonet, Arthur's fool, after La Cote Male Taile to 
joust with him; a great insult. Then Sir Bleoberis came after La Cote 
Male Taile and struck him down, but would not continue the fight on 
foot. Then, two days later, Sir Palomides challenged him and did the 
same thing. The damosel Maledisant was furious.

Sir Mordred, Sir Gawain's brother, joined with them and they reached 
the castle Orgulous, where the custom was that knights must joust or be 
imprisoned.  his appearance.

Sir Kay sent Sir Dagonet, Arthur's fool, after La Cote Male Taile to 
joust with him; a great insult. Then Sir Bleoberis came after La Cote 
Male Taile and struck him down, but would not continue the fight on 
foot. Then, two days later, Sir Palomides challenged him and did the 
same thing. The damosel Maledisant was furious.

Sir Mordred, Sir Gawain's brother, joined with them and they reached 
the castle Orgulous, where the custom was that knights must joust or be 
imprisoned. Two knights emerged; one smote down Sir Mordred, but La 
Cote Male Taile defeated them and rode into the castle.

A hundred knights attacked La Cote Male Taile and would have killed his 
horse, so he leapt off his horse, set his back to a wall and defended 
himself well. A lady was impressed, led his horse outside and called 
down that he should fight his was to a back door. This he did, killing 
twelve knights, won his horse and rode away.

The damosel did not believe La Cote Male Taile's story when he rejoined 
her. She sent a courier, who confirmed it. Sir Mordred also said that 
La Cote Male Taile was a worth knight, which was why Bleoberis and 
Palomides had not risked fighting him on foot.

Meanwhile Sir Launcelot heard about the damosel and the shield (which 
was also the one Tristram rescued from Breumis Saunce Pite) and rode 
out; joining La Cote Male Taile after seven days. But then Launcelot 
received a letter from Sir Tristram, excusing himself of the marriage 
to Isoud la Blanche Mains, saying it was unconsummated, and asking 
Launcelot to remain his friend (Launcelot having been angry at 
Tristram's desertion of La Beale Isoud).

While Launcelot was away, arranging a reply, La Cote Male Taile and 
the damosel reached Castle Pendragon. Six knights offered to joust 
with La Cote Male Taile; he beat the first but the others all attacked 
at once and imprisoned him.

Luncelot followed, meeting and defeating Sir Nerovens de Lile on a 
bridge, neither recognising the other. Sir Nerovens had heard that a 
Round Table knight had just been imprisoned in the Castle Pendragon, 
so Launcelot rode there. He defeated the six knights and then their 
lord, Sir Brian de les Isles; rescuing La Cote Male Taile, thirty 
of Arthur's knights, and forty ladies. And he gave the Castle Pendragon 
to La Cote Male Taile, setting Nerovens to run it. 

The Damosel Maledisant was ashamed that she had rebuked Launcelot, not 
recognising him, for standing up for La Cote Male Taile. She said she 
was sorry, promised not to rebuke either of them, and Launcelot named 
her the Damosel Bienpensant.

They rode to the border of the country of Surluse, where they found a 
fair village with fortified bridges. The locals refused them passage 
because of the black shield, so La Cote Male Taile volunteered to enter 
and fight for passage. He defeated Sir Plaine de Force and Sir Plaine 
de Armours and they yielded, then fought their brother, Sir Plenorius 
and was defeated. 

La Cote Male Taile tried to warn Sir Plenorius of his companion's 
prowess, but without naming Launcelot, but he insisted on fighting and 
was defeated. Launcelot offered the fortresses to La Cote Male Taile, 
but he refused to take Sir Plenorius' livelihood. Sir Plenorius agreed 
to go to Arthur's court. 

At Pentecost, Sir Plenorius and Sir Breunor Le Noir (La Cote Male 
Taile) were made knights of the Round Table. La Cote Male Taile married 
the damosel Maledisant, thereafter called Beauvivante, and afterwards 
he avenged his father's death.

Sir Tristram de Liones was at that time in Brittany. When La Beale 
Isoud heard that he was married, she sent him piteous letters by means 
of her maid Bragwaine, inviting him and Isoud la Blanche Mains to come 
to her court. Sir Tristram, Kehydius, Dame Bragwaine and Gouvernail, 
Sir Tristram's squire set sail for Cornwall, but were blown to North 
Wales, near the Castle Perilous.

Tristram and Kehydius asked the fellowship to wait for ten days and 
rode into the forest, where they met a sad knight beside a well. The 
knight ignored their greetings, but prepared to joust and smote them 
down in turn.

Tristram and the knight, Sir Lamorak de Gales, fought on foot, because 
of their earlier hostility and despite their agreement made on the 
Isle of Servage. They fought until weary of each other, then agreed 
that both were worth knights and would never fight each other again.

Sir Palomides came upon them, jousted and knocked both down, then 
departed after his Ques offer of help, but the cowardly 
knights remained hidden.

Lamorak departed; met Sir Meliagaunt and asked him why he loved Queen 
Guenever when Margawse of Orkney was the fariest queen. They fought 
fiercely and wounded each other. Then Sir Bleoberis and Launcelot 
arrived. Launcelot stopped the fight, but when he learned its cause 
he challenged Sir Lamorak. Lamorak did not want to fight him and 
explained that each man thought his own lady fairest, Sir Bleoberis 
agreed and Launcelot was persuas offer of help, but the cowardly 
knights remained hidden.

Lamorak departed; met Sir Meliagaunt and asked him why he loved Queen 
Guenever when Margawse of Orkney was the fariest queen. They fought 
fiercely and wounded each other. Then Sir Bleoberis and Launcelot 
arrived. Launcelot stopped the fight, but when he learned its cause 
he challenged Sir Lamorak. Lamorak did not want to fight him and 
explained that each man thought his own lady fairest, Sir Bleoberis 
agreed and Launcelot was persuaded. 

After they split up, Sir Lamorak met and jousted with King Arthur and 
was wounded. Lamorak did not recognise Arthur and was angry that he 
would not continue the fight on foot.

Meanwhile, Tristram was riding with Sir Kay. Kay insulted Cornwall and 
Tristram insulted Kay. They met Sir Tor, Tristram's half-brother, on a 
bridge. He jousted with Sir Kay and gave him a fall. Then they met 
with various other Round Table knights, Sir Tristram jousted and beat 
them and was invited to join the Round Table, though Tristram thought 
he was not yet worthy. Then they went their own ways.

King Arthur was in the Forest Perilous, in North Wales, by the means of 
a lady. Annowre was a great sorceress and, by fair promises, persuaded 
him to ride with her. She loved Arthur and wanted him to lie by her, 
but when he refused she wanted him dead.

The Lady of the Lake, Nimue, learned by her subtle crafts that Arthur 
was likely to be destroyed, so she met Tristram and guided him to the 
place where Arthur was fighting two knights and about to be slain. 
Tristram slew the knights, beheaded Annowre, rescued Arthur and guarded 
him until they met Sir Ector. But Tristram would not give his name.

Tristram, Lamorak and Kehydius met, rode to where they had left their 
ship with Dame Bragwaine and Gouvernail and sailed to Cornwall. Sir 
Dinas, the steward and a friend of Tristram's, took news of his arrival 
to La Beale Isoud at the court of King Mark, and she swooned for joy.  

Sir Dinas and Dame Bragwaine brought Sir Tristram and Kehydius secretly 
into court, and tongue cannot tell of the joys between Tristram and 
Isoud. And when Sir Kehydius saw Isoud, he fell deeply in love, writing 
her letters and ballads, and she took pity and wrote to comfort him.

Tristram found these letters and accused Isoud of being a traitress. 
She swooned and Kehydius escaped through a window, pretending to King 
Mark, who was below, that he had fallen while asleep.

Tristram then put on armour and rode out of the castle to the forest, 
where he went mad. Tristram stayed for a long time, naked and growing 
lean of flesh, until he fell in with some herdsmen who clipped him 
with shears and kept him as their fool.

One hot day Dagonet, King Arthur's fool, and two squires alit to drink 
at the well where Sir Tristram stayed. He soused all three and, to the 
laughter of the shepherds, made them ride away dripping. And Tristram 
stayed there for half a year, never coming to town nor village.

Palomides heard of Tristram's plight; he happened to meet Kehydius, who 
had been ordered from Cornwall by La Beale Isoud, so they decided to 
find Tristram. They came upon King Mark, who Palomides blamed for 
Tristram's plight and would have killed, but the King was unarmed and 
refused his offer of Kehydius' equipment. Because King Mark was sorry, 
they parted friends. 
 
Meanwhile, Sir Dagonet returned to the herdsmen who had laughed at him, 
thinking to beat them, but Tristram wrestled him to the ground and 
killed a squire. Dagonet fled to King Mark, who thought the mad man was 
Sir Matto le Breune, who lost his wits when Gaheris won his lady.

Sir Andred wanted Sir Tristram's lands, so he made the lady that was 
his paramour say that she had seen Tristram die. King Mark was sad, and 
Queen Isoud tried to kill herself with a sword. 

Tawleas the giant had stayed in his castle for fear of Tristram, but 
now he heard that Tristram was dead, he went out daily. The herdsmen 
saw Tawleas attack Sir Dinaunt and called on Tristram to help. Tristram 
grabbed up a sword and beheaded Tawleas. 

Dinault carried the head back to King Mark and recounted the tale of 
how a naked man had saved him. King Mark went to Tristram and commanded 
that he be brought in and cared for; but no one recognised him. 

La Beale Isoud heard about the wild man and went to see him. Tristram 
recognised her and wept. Then Isoud's brachet greeted Tristram happily 
and Isoud knew who he must be. 

She swooned, then recover Dinadan departed and a damosel met the others; she 
knew of a treasonous plot by Morgan le Fay, whereby thirty knights lay 
in ambush for Sir Launcelot. They agreed to help. 

Then the damosel met Tristram and Dinadan; Sir Dinadan hung back, but 
Sir Tristram went and fought the knights, killing twelve. Then Sir 
Dinadan joined the fight, and did well enough; only ten enemies fled.  
The other four arrived, but Tristram again refused to give his name.

Tristram and Dinadan came to a castle where t Dinadan departed and a damosel met the others; she 
knew of a treasonous plot by Morgan le Fay, whereby thirty knights lay 
in ambush for Sir Launcelot. They agreed to help. 

Then the damosel met Tristram and Dinadan; Sir Dinadan hung back, but 
Sir Tristram went and fought the knights, killing twelve. Then Sir 
Dinadan joined the fight, and did well enough; only ten enemies fled.  
The other four arrived, but Tristram again refused to give his name.

Tristram and Dinadan came to a castle where the custom was that 
visitors must win a joust before being housed. And this they did. Then 
Palomides and Gaheris arrived and Tristram and Dinadan had to defend 
the castle. Gaheris and Dinadan lost their respective jousts and 
Dinadan would not Gaheris fight on foot, complaining of all the wounds 
he suffered on Tristram's behalf, but Tristram got the better of Sir 
Palomides. Then they agreed to all lodge in the castle.

Launcelot heard how a Cornish knight had defeated his enemies, knew he 
could only be Sir Tristram, and praised him. 

Tristram left Dinadan in a priory, for he was too bruised to ride, and 
Sir Pellinor asked who Tristram was. Dinadan refuses to say; Pellinor 
was angry and rode after Tristram to insist he identify himself; and 
was struck down and wounded for his pains. Later, Tristram defeated 
Sir Kay and Sir Sagramore le Desirous.

Tristram was tricked by a damosel and went with her, thinking to win 
renown. They met Sir Gawain, who recognised the damosel as a servant 
of Morgan le Fay, sent to lure Launcelot or Tristram to her castle, 
where thirty knights lay in ambush.

Gawain and Tristram went to the castle and called on Queen Morgan le 
Fay to send out her knights, but she would not. 

They encountered Sir Breunis Saunce Pite, chasing a lady to kill her. 
Gawain challenged him but was knocked from his horse. Breunis Saunce 
Pite tried twenty times to ride over Gawain, angering Sir Tristram by 
such villainous conduct. Tristram chased and hunted Sir Breunis Saunce 
Pite, to be avenged, and after some time he came to a well.

A damosel found Tristram beside the well and knew him by his horse, 
Passe-Brewel. She gave him letters from Queen La Beale Isoud, and he 
was glad to read her piteous complaints. And Tristram invited Lady 
Bragwaine to ride with him to a tournament, where he competed largely 
unrecognised as usual.

Much jousting took place at the tournament; Sir Launcelot beat off 
twelve knights from North Wales who attacked while he was resting at 
a well; and the judges awarded Sir Tristram (who they knew only as the 
"Knight with the Black Shield") the first prize. Fighting continued 
for many pages, and Tristram was unlucky to be badly wounded by Sir 
Launcelot and forced to withdraw. Sir Palomides forced him to joust, 
despite his wounds, but still Tristram was victorious.

Launcelot was awarded the prize of the third day, because he was last 
remaining in the field, and Sir Launcelot gave it to Tristram. Then 
the tournament ended with a great feast given by King Arthur.

Sir Palomides sought Sir Tristram in a rage, asked his horse to jump 
a wide river and barely escaped alive. Palomides took off his harness 
and sat on the bank, roaring and crying. Then a damosel passed, with a 
message for Sir Mordred who lay sick in the same place as Tristram. So 
Palomides discovered where Tristram was. The damosel told Sir Tristram 
what had happened, and he called Palmides a good knight.

Arthur sent ten knights to find Tristram: Launcelot, Ector de Maris, 
Bors de Ganis, Bleoberis, Blamor de Ganis, Lucan, Uwain, Galihud, 
Lionel and Galihodin. On the way, Launcelot rescued Dame Bragwaine 
from Sir Breunis Saunce Pite, who fled yet again.

Sir Tristram was imprisoned by Sir Darras, whose three sons he had 
slain. And Sir Palomides and Sir Darras were locked up too. Palomides 
started by criticising Tristram, but was won over by his good conduct 
and demeanor. Sir Tristram became ill and the others cared for him.
 
Meanwhile, Sir Gaheris went to Cornwall in search of Tristram, and 
told King Mark of Tristam's success at the tournament. King Mark was 
worried to hear of Tristram's prowess, for fear that he might become a 
rival, but Queen Isoud was glad.

Uwain le Fise de Roi Uriens, alias Uwain le Blanchemains, arrived and 
challenged the knights of Cornwall. Sir Andred and Sir Dinas responded 
and were knocked down. Sir Gaheris offered to fight, but Uwain would 
not do so because they were cousins and fellow Round Tabo they rode to the Perilous Lake, at 
the edge of the wood. 

That night, King Mark and Sir Andred dressed all in black and secretly 
rode from Tintagel. Sir Kay saw them coming and got his spear to joust, 
but his horse was struck down by the king. Then Gaheris struck down 
both the Cornish knights and required Sir Andred to yield and reveal 
their identies. He was furious to learn of their treachery, and they 
all fought on foot.

King Mark knelt and yielded to Sir Gaheris, promising upon the cro they rode to the Perilous Lake, at 
the edge of the wood. 

That night, King Mark and Sir Andred dressed all in black and secretly 
rode from Tintagel. Sir Kay saw them coming and got his spear to joust, 
but his horse was struck down by the king. Then Gaheris struck down 
both the Cornish knights and required Sir Andred to yield and reveal 
their identies. He was furious to learn of their treachery, and they 
all fought on foot.

King Mark knelt and yielded to Sir Gaheris, promising upon the cross of 
the sword never to be against errant-knights and to be a good friend to 
Sir Tristram.

Elsewhere, Sir Dinas had a paramour that loved another better than him. 
And she slipped down a towel and went to her love. Sir Dinas pursued 
the knight, smote him down and broke his leg. He let the lovers alone, 
but took back his brachets that his paramour had taken. 

Elsewhere, Sir Darras heard of Sir Tristram's illness and repented of 
imprisoning the three knights. They were freed and Tristram was cared 
for until he was fit again.

Tristram came by chance to a castle where Queen Morgan le Fay was 
staying. The queen would not let him leave, saying he was a prisoner, 
but changed her mind, on condition that Sir Tristram gave his name. 
This he did; Queen Morgan regretted her decision to free him and said 
he could only leave if he took her shield and went to Arthur's 
tournament at the Castle of the Hard Rock.

The shield was gules with a king and queen therein painted, and a 
knight standing with one foot on each. It was an unsubtle reference to 
Arthur, Guenever and Launcelot, though Tristram did not realise that.

Tristram accepted. Then Sir Hemison, Queen Morgan le Fay's paramour, 
rode after Sir Tristram, not knowing him, and was killed. Queen Morgan 
made great sorrow and raised a tomb for him.

Tristram arrived at the tournament and did marvellous feats of arms. 
And Guenever saw that King Arthur's eye was ever on the shield. Then 
King Arthur and Sir Uwain went to Sir Tristram and required of him 
where he had that shield.

"Sir", he said, "I had it of Queen Morgan le Fay".

AND THUS ENDETH THE FIRST VOLUME OF LE MORTE D'ARTHUR