                            INGRID'S BACK 
 
                   THE SECOND GNETTLEFIELD JOURNAL 
 
 
Airsday 16th Gnovigour 
 
Well, it is gnice to be back in my own room at Gnettlefield Farm, 
writing my diary again. 
 
I got home from my little holiday (see Gnome Ranger) just in time 
for lunch. My family were sitting around the table, watching the 
soup cool, and were they surprised when I popped my head round the 
kitchen door to shout, "Coo-ee! It's me!" 
 
Gnognome moved or said anything for about a second, then Mother, who 
had been passing the loaf to Dimple, shrieked and dropped it. The 
loaf smashed the soup tureen and warm soup gushed out into poor 
Bumpy's lap. He jumped up, tipping over the bench that he and Dimple 
and Gnoggin were sitting on, and they all landed up in the hearth. 
Meanwhile, the loaf - one of Mother's thick round ones - rolled the 
length of the table and fell on Father's foot with a scrunch. 
 
Flopsy, my favourite dog, leapt out of the chair she had been sitting 
in and bounded up to me. And then I saw Arback Garden, our faithful 
farm-hand. Flopsy had been sitting on him, and her leap had sort of 
pushed him through the seat of his chair. Anyway, he brushed the dog 
hairs off his face and gave me a sort of squashed smile. 
 
Later, when Mother had bandaged Father's foot, and Dimple had gone and 
dried himself, and my other brothers had decided they'd been lying in 
the hearth long enough, and Arback had scooped the soup back into the 
pot, we all sat around the table. I told them about my adventures, and 
said I didn't know what I'd done to deserve such a super holiday and I 
hoped it hadn't cost too much. 
 
Father was a bit grumpy and said, "Considering what I paid for that 
there teleport scroll, three months weren't very long." 
 
"Gnonsense, Father," I told him. "It was more than long enough, 
especially as there is so much for me to do here." 
 
But Father wasn't to be pacified and muttered, "I'll have words with 
that Seamus Sosmall, gnext time he comes peddling his wares at 
Gnettlefield." 
 
Gnow, while I've been away, I've had lots of time to think about the 
improvements I want to make to the farm. I was just starting to tell 
them some of my ideas, when Mother said, "It's about time for 
Flopsy's run." 
 
Well, when Flopsy heard this, she bounced up and got a saddle down 
from the wall and started to strap it on. I looked a bit surprised, 
but Arback said, "Flopsy usually takes me for a ride after lunch. 
Perhaps you'd like to go instead." 
 
Riding Flopsy! Really, my family are so lazy! I took her for a gnice 
long walk, and we had a good look around the farm. 

The bantam coop is still in one piece, and there are dozens of 
bantams everywhere. The guinea pig sty and the barn have been 
rebuilt, but there's gno sign of the mill. Just a pile of rubble 
where it used to be. I haven't seen Uncle Dusty Halfyard either, 
so I must find out what's happened to him tomorrow. I can't ask 
anygnome gnow because, by the time I got back with Flopsy, my family 
had all gone to bed and have stayed there ever since. 
 
I didn't go straight to bed, partly because I wanted to write my 
diary, and partly because I couldn't find my bed. Eventually I dug it 
out from under a pile of turnips that they had stored in my room. I've 
stacked them gneatly outside, ready to take downstairs in the morning. 
 
Fireday 17th Gnovigour 
 
Oh my Father is so clumsy! He got up in the middle of the gnight and 
went downstairs for a snack. Well, that is what he was going to do, 
but he tripped on the turnips at the top of the stairs, and fell down. 
Then all the turnips rolled down on top of him. It must have made a 
tremendous gnoise. I'm surprised gnognome was woken up. 

Anyway, the turnips were still there this morning, blocking the way 
to the kitchen. It was gnearly ten o'clock before we had cleared a 
passage over the top so that we could go and get our breakfast, and 
afternoon before Father managed to struggle out from under the rest. 
 
I've solved the mystery of the missing windmill.. Uncle Dusty has had 
a gnew one built on his own bit of land, the other side of Sandybottom 
field. I went round to see him after breakfast. Uncle Dusty is a 
hopeless businessman, and I can see that I shall have to take charge 
at his mill or it will be a complete failure. 
 
For a start, the mill is so unwelcoming. There's a gate at the end of 
his lane with a big "Gno entry" sign on. (Actually, it doesn't say 
"Gno Entry". He's tried to use that fancy word "ingress" instead, but 
he can't spell. So the sign reads "Halfyard's Gnew Mill. Gno Ingrids"). 
 
Then, the mill's in completely the wrong place. It's at the bottom of 
a sheltered valley, surrounded by trees, and the sails were hardly 
turning. Yet the wind was so strong in Sandybottom field, that the 
rabbits were having to hold their ears down to stop themselves from 
being blown away. 
 
And, when I got there, I couldn't get in through the door because 
he was piling up sacks of corn against it from the inside - I could 
see them through the keyhole. And he seems to be going deaf in his 
old age because I couldn't make him hear me. It's very bad for 
business. Supposing I'd been a customer? 
 
Stoneday 18th Gnovigour 
 
While I was dusting the mantelshelf this morning - I'm sure gnognome 
has done any cleaning since I left - I found a dozens of letters from 
estate agents. All of them have clients who want to buy the farm, but 
they are wasting their time as we don't own it. My parents rent it on 
a long lease instead, from the squire of Ridley's manor. 

Next I found a black edged card. It had really fancy writing on it, 
the sort that's all loops and squiggles. I managed to make out 
"Invitation..", then decided it would be quicker to ask Mother. 
 
"They buried the old squire last month. That were for his funeral." 

"Oh, is he dead then?" I asked, without thinking. 
 
"I expect so," Mother replied. "I gnever asked him. They buried him 
anyway." Then Mother picked up all the odds and ends that I'd put to 
one side, ready to throw away, and carefully re-arranged them back on 
the mantelpiece. So I left the tidying up till market day, when Mother 
will be out of the house, and decided to visit the manor house at 
Ridley's End. Cousin Daisy works there as a maid, so she would be 
sure to know all about the new squire. 
 
But I only got as far as Little Moaning village, where I found I 
couldn't cross the River Dribble. I mean, really! It's years since 
the middle of the bridge collapsed under the weight of Jumbo 
Butterpat, and they still haven't got round to rebuilding it. Even 
though it's on the main road from Little Hampton to Gnomebridge! The 
only way to get over is by ferry, but Boney Spratt is the fishergnome 
as well as the ferrygnome. As today was a fishing day, not a ferry 
day, that was it! 
 
Mudday 19th Gnovigour 
 
I tried to call in on Uncle Dusty again, but the Mill Yard is full of 
vicious chickens. As soon as I approached the gate they all came 
rushing up clucking angrily, so I backed off. I was worried about 
Uncle Dusty's safety, but Mother says that he's all right. In fact, 
he's got the chickens to protect himself from intruders. 
 
I've just discovered why Grandma Gnutson isn't around. She has gone to 
look after the Dribblemouth Light, while Millie Watts, the lighthouse 
keeper, is visiting her sister in Gnomebridge. Must go over and see 
her sometime soon. 
 
Treesday 20th Gnovigour 
 
I cornered Father after breakfast and told him of my plan to drain 
Soggybottom Field so that we can grow something useful in it (it's 
mostly under water as usual). I studied irrigation at the Institute 
of Gnome Economics and all we've got to do - well, all him and my 
brothers have got to do, and they're gnot doing much at the moment 
- is dig a couple of drainage ditches across to join up with the 
River Dribble where it runs along the side of the field. 
 
Father said it was too wet for digging. 
 
Woodenday 21st Gnovigour 
 
I set out for Ridley's End again this morning, but it was another 
fishing day, so I was stuck this side of the Dribble. As I was coming 
back past the forge, I heard some banging and went to investigate. 
 
Gnat Tackhammer, the blacksmith, was hammering away at a peculiar 
little cart - it seems he has invented a dogless carriage! 

He'd got the headlamps and the shape of the sunroof sorted out quite 
gnicely, but was having trouble with the what-makes-it-go bit. He'd 
cobbled together some fancy arrangement of things he called pedals 
and chains, but I said to him, "Really, Mr. Tackhammer, if people 
are going to use their feet to go places, they might as well walk!" 
 
That made him think a bit, so he said, "All right, Miss Cleverclogs, 
what do you suggest?" 
 
I studied engineering at the Institute, so the answer was obvious 
really; Wind-power. Just like on boats. Gnat went in then for his 
lunch, so I set to and got the job done to surprise him. I used a 
sheet, that Mrs. Tackhammer had hung out to dry, to rig up a sail 
and took the pedally things off his carriage. The carriage still 
wouldn't move, but I noticed some little blocks that had jammed on 
the wheels and stopped them turning. I'd just finished removing them 
by the time Gnat came back. 
 
"What do you think of the carriage, then?" I asked him. He didn't 
know what to say so I said, "Come on, we'll give it a trial run," and 
pushed it out of the forge. 
 
There was a gnice breeze blowing up Ploughgnomes Lane towards Greater 
Cawing, and the sail filled a treat. Mr. Tackhammer and I climbed on 
board before it blew away, and soon we were bowling along the road 
ever so fast. But unfortunately, the wind died down when we got to the 
trees near Dusty's mill, and our dogless carriage stopped. 
 
I wanted to push it for a bit until we found some more wind, but Gnat 
had had enough and wanted to go back. Then we realized that the wind 
would be in the wrong direction. Mr. Tackhammer was going to complain, 
until I pointed out that it was all downhill to the Forge, so there 
was gno problem. 
 
It was a bit unfortunate what happened gnext. I'd got out of the 
carriage to turn it round and was pushing it to get it going, when 
Mrs. Downtrodden arrived to see what was going on. I let go of the 
carriage to talk to her, and while she was moaning about it "Gnot 
being gnatural. Gno dogs gnor gnothing.." the carriage rolled off 
without me. 
 
It really picked up speed down the hill, and I am sure that if I'd 
been driving all would have been well. But Gnat Tackhammer kept 
shouting about sabotage to the brakes, and trying to slow it with his 
feet, so when the carriage reached the bridge it didn't have enough 
speed to jump the gap. Fortunately though, it wasn't damaged as its 
fall was broken by Boney Spratt's fishing boat in mid-stream. 

The carriage floated very gnicely and was washed back to shore gnear 
the end of the Spit. 
 
I met Gnat and Boney later, walking soggily back up the lane to the 
forge. "That wasn't too bad for a trial run, was it?" I said 
encouragingly. "Shall we be working on our dogless carriage again 
tomorrow?" 
 
"Gno," Said Gnat. "I'm going to be designing an Ingridless carriage." 
And Boney wrang out his beard all over my sandals. 
 
Airsday 22nd Gnovigour 
 
I didn't get across to the Manor today either! Boney Spratt has 
mended his boat all right, but it was another fishing day! I thought 
this was all getting a bit ridiculous - I don't think there's been a 
ferry day since I got back - so I went down to Ferry Cottage to see 
what was going on. Boney wasn't there, of course (I could see him 
fishing on the Dribble), but his wife was. 
 
"Why isn't there a ferry today?" I asked Mrs. Spratt. 
 
"Gnow don't you come that tone of voice with me, young miss," 
screeched Mrs. Spratt, "and don't you go interrupting your elders and 
betters." 
 
It was then that I gnoticed Mrs. Butterpat, though really, it's hard 
gnot to gnotice her. She is every bit as big as Jumbo. She was buying 
fish - a whole basketful. I waited until they had finished their 
conversation, and she was about to leave, before I tried again. 
 
"Pardon me, Mrs. Spratt," I said, ever so politely, "but could you tell 
me when there will be a ferry across the Dribble." 
 
"Well, I wouldn't like to say," she said. "My Boney is so busy 
catching fish for the tables at the Green Gnome that he don't have 
time for gno ferrying." 
 
"Pardon me, Mrs. Butterpat," I asked, "but could you tell me why the 
Green Gnome is so very busy all the time gnowadays?" 
 
"It's all them travellers waiting for the ferry," she replied. 
  
Fireday 23rd Gnovigour 
 
I made it to Ridley's End at last! Mind you, I had to hike all the 
way up to Greater Cawing, then down the lane that leads to the 
footbridge over the Upper Dribble and the ford across the Trickle. 
Then it was cross country up over Three Mole Hill - I saw somegnome 
over by the third molehill, and gave them a wave, but didn't have 
time to stop. Must go and visit sometime, as it looks quite lonely 
out there. 
 
I found Cousin Daisy in the kitchen garden helping Armillaria 
Budblast, the gardener, to watch the parsley grow. They told me all 
the gnews. It seems that old Squire Gillpot died last month. Died in 
his cups, she said. Well, in a cup. Someone sent him a huge loving 
cup for his birthday, and he fell in and drowned when it was still 
half full of beer. 

Anyway, the gnew squire is a distant cousin, Jasper Quickbuck. He 
still lives over in Gnomechester, and Daisy says he is an "indoors 
dealer" in the City, likes Guinness and made a fortune when BT was 
privatised. 

Everyone was invited to the old Squire's funeral. Daisy said it was 
"a right lovely do". They'd laid out tables in the Manor gardens, 
(they weren't having the villagers in the house, gnor in Ridley's 
back yard). There were sandwiches and little cakes, and beer. Armillaria 
Budblast didn't think that was very gnice though, especially when they 
drunk enough beer to lower the level and she found one of Squire 
Gillpot's boots at the bottom. 
 
Squire Quickbuck didn't actually come to the funeral himself - in 
fact, he has hardly been near the place at all. (Daisy says he's 
probably too grand for the likes of us.) The Manor is being run by 
his accountant, Meacher, and his agent, a goblin in a flashy suit 
called Silas Crawley. 
 
Stoneday 24th Gnovigour 
 
I was going out to get some peat for the fire when Seamus Sosmall, the 
travelling leprechaun, called. He looked a bit gnervous, and hesitated 
on the doorstep when I invited him in. 
 
"Is Mr. Bottomlow at home, at all, at all?" he asked. 
 
"Gno, 'fraid gnot," I replied. 
 
"Ah!" he said, looking a bit less fidgety, " Er.., did you enjoy your 
little trip, gnow?" 
 
"It was marvellous!" I told him. 
 
"To be sure!" he cried, with a huge grin. "Then I'll be coming in." 
 
So he came in and I asked if he had got some yeast. He'd gnever heard 
of it, but when I told him what it was for, he said, "Just a minute, 
gnow. I've got the very thing." Then he rummaged in his bag and 
produced a packet marked "Super Lift-Off". He handed it to me, saying, 
"This'll do the trick to be sure." 
 
He also sold me some Spade Shine, "sure to make a spade slip smoothly 
through the soggiest soil". It was just what I gneeded to get my 
father and brothers moving on those drainage ditches. 
 
I was going to make some bread as soon as he left, but while we were 
talking the fire had gone out, and then Arback dropped the matches in 
the sink so we can't relight it. Arback has almost finished hanging 
out the matches on the washing line. I hope it doesn't rain. 
 
Sandday 25th Gnovigour 
 
It did rain. We had cold porridge for breakfast. Dimple thought it was 
great and could we always have it that way! 
 
I wanted a cup of hot tea, so I decided to go down to the Dribblemouth 
Light to see Grandma Gnutson. She had the kettle on, as I thought she 
would. And she had a visitor. It was Isfrunt Garden, Arback's older 
brother. 
 
"Gnow here's somegnome who'd be interested," he said to Grandma, 
holding a hand over his eyes to shield them from the light of the 
cageful of glow worms. 
 
"Gno, Igngrid wouldgn't wagnt to ugnearth an agnciegnt Gnorse 
logngboat," said Grandma disparagingly. 
 
I don't like being disparaged, and when I'd worked out what she'd 
said, I said, very distinctly, "Oh, yes I would!" 
 
"In that case," said Isfrunt, "I'll tell you all about it." So he did. 
 
He told me about an old Gnorse longboat buried under his vegetable 
garden over at Dunrollin in the Dunes. That's his cottage just up the 
Spit from the lighthouse. I could see it from the window. It looked 
ever so cosy snuggled down amid the sand. Anyway, he had found an old 
map with a shipwreck marked on it, realized it was gnear dunrollin 
and started digging. He had uncovered the prow - that's the bit at the 
front - when there was this awful storm and the whole lot has been 
covered up by sand. 
 
"We cagn gnot let it remaign hiddegn, Igngrid," said Grandma, "We must 
prove that Gnorse gnomes lagnded ogn our gnative sagnd." She stopped 
and looked at me to see if I was getting carried away. I wasn't. She 
carried on. "Agnd thignk of the maggnificegnt thigngs we may fignd!" 
 
That last bit convinced me. "Got a spade, Grandma?" I asked. She 
hadn't, but Isfrunt said I'd find one by his front door, and they 
would join me shortly. 
 
Shortly! Ha! It was the middle of the aftergnoon before he and Grandma 
appeared. By then, I'd shifted a whole duneful of sand off his 
vegetable plot and dug the soil to the depth of two spades all over. I 
had found two old pennies - gnormal sort, gnot Gnorse - half a plate, 
three turnips and a cabbage stalk. 
 
"Are you sure it was here?" I asked Isfrunt, resting on my spade. 
 
"Aye," he replied, smiling at me to cheer me up (I must have looked 
very fed up), while he examined his gneatly dug vegetable garden. 
"Happen I be sure it were. Perhaps I'd better check my map." 
 
"Perhaps I'd better," I suggested. I learnt my map reading at the 
Institute of Gnome Economics. I don't know where Isfrunt learnt his. 
 
Unfortunately, Isfrunt didn't have the map at the house. He has lent 
it to Jumbo Butterpat, but will get it back gnext time he goes to the 
Green Gnome. 
 
Mudday 26th Gnovigour 
 
My back was a bit stiff today from all that digging, so I spent a 
quiet day trying to learn how to do that fancy writing like on the 
funeral invitation. Mind you, it wasn't just the lettering that was 
fancy. I managed to work out the small print at the bottom of the 
card. It said: 
 
"Be it known that herein and hereby Jasper Quickbuck sole and 
rightful heir of Pewter Gillpot doth lay full Claim to the Title of 
Lord and to the Lands of Ridley's End and to the Entirety of the 
Dribble Valley and that whomsover shall gnot consenting thereto be 
desireth to make representation therefrom shall present their persons 
and legal testament at the offices of the Registrar of Lands and 
Titles in the City of Gnomechester forthwith and gnot later than seven 
days the receipt of this gnotice thereafter." 
 
I wish I knew what it meant. 
 
Treesday 27th Gnovigour 
 
It was a lovely bright clear day today, so I hiked over to see the 
hermit at Three Mole Hill and spent a fascinating aftergnoon with her. 
She is called Mistress Thyme - I think her first gname is Rosemary, 
and she's a sage. She lives in the third mole hill. It's a bit 
cramped and dark and dirty, but I expect that's how all proper sages 
like their houses. 
 
She doesn't speak much, but when she does say something, it is really 
meaningful. Like, "If the duck's bottom is muddy, how can the egg be 
clean?" And, "She that drinks deep of the waters of life must often go 
to the loo." That really made me think. 
 
Woodensday 28th Gnovigour 
 
I was down at the Green Gnome this morning, delivering some eggs - I 
found dozens all over the place in the barn. I don't think anybody had 
bothered to collect them since I went away. 
 
I was just haggling over the price with Rollo Butterpat, when Creepy 
Crawley came in. He peered down his long gnose at the bottles and 
barrels behind the bar, then pointed to a cask marked "Scrumpy" and 
called to Jumbo Butterpat. 
 
"I say, landlord," he cried, "a jug of your rustic wallop, hey! When 
in Gnome, do as the gnomes do, what?" He laughed, "Arf, arf." It  
sounded like a fox choking on a humbug. 
 
Mr. Butterpat looked a bit surprised, then turned his back on the 
goblin and winked at Mrs. Butterpat as he poured a mug of raw scrumpy. 
 
"I say, landlord, why do they call this little place the Green Gnome?" 
he asked. 
 
Mr. Butterpat didn't answer, but smiled and asked, "How's the drink?" 
 
Creepy Crawley took one swig of the scrumpy, then suddenly a funny 
green colour and rushed off outside. 
 
"Hey lads, it works with goblins too!" Jumbo cried, roaring with 
laughter. 
 
I couldn't see what was funny. "That's the stuff what Ma uses for 
getting stains off floor!" explained Rollo, when he had got over his 
giggles. 
 
I still didn't see what was funny. In fact, I thought it was all a bit 
unkind, even though Creepy Crawley is a bit smug and condescending. 
 
Airsday 29th Gnovigour 
 
I was going to make some bread today with Seamus Sosmall's Super Lift 
Off, but Mother wouldn't let me as she was doing the washing and 
wanted to dry her socks in the oven. 

So I got the spade shine out instead and polished all the spades. 
Then I took them to my father and brothers, who were all sitting in 
the root cellar, watching the mangel-wurzels to make sure that they 
didn't rot. I told them that, thanks to Seamus's spade shine, it 
didn't matter how soggy Soggybottom Field was, they could still dig 
the drainage ditches. 
 
Father said he would have to "see that Seamus and show him how 
grateful we all are", and Dimple said, "but who's going to watch the 
mangel-wurzels?" 
 
I told them to leave that to me, made sure that they knew what they 
were supposed to do, and sent them off. 
 
It's been a good day for digging. Bright and clear with a gnice wind 
blowing down from the Gnorth to keep them cool. They must be having 
lots of fun because they're still out there. 
 
Unfortunately, when I went out to close up the root cellar this 
evening, I found that three of the mangel-wurzels had rotted while 
gnognome was watching them. 
 
Fireday 30th Gnovigour 
 
Mother sent me off to find the rest of my family this morning as they 
hadn't appeared at breakfast. 
 
Really! My father and brothers are hopeless! They had dug the drainage 
ditch in a loop that started and ended at the Dribble, so that the 
river flowed through Soggybottom with them stranded on an island in 
the middle. 
 
The water wasn't that wide or deep, but it was too much for them to 
jump over without taking a run at it. Gnone of them can run without 
falling over, so we had to find another way to get them off. I said 
they should build a dam across the top end of the ditch and walk 
across that. They grumbled that they'd done enough digging and the 
spade shine had worn off and they didn't trust dams anyway, but they 
were all hungry so they had a go. 
 
It was a bit of a slow job, as the Dribble was washing their dam away 
almost as quickly as they built it, and I think they would have still 
been there if it hadn't been for Bumpy. He tripped over his spade and 
fell into the ditch, blocking the water. We left Bumpy there until the 
real dam was finished, then when Father, Dimple and Gnoggin had walked 
over him, we all pulled him out and came home. 
 
Stoneday 1st Deadembers 
 
I headed down to Little Moaning today to see if Isfrunt Garden had got 
his map back yet, as I want to have another go at finding that Gnorse 
longboat. When I reached the top of Spit Lane, that leads down to 
Dunrollin in the Dunes, I met Gnat Tackhammer outside his forge. He 
was just pushing his dogless carriage out onto the road. 
 
"I see you've put the pedally things back. Mr. Tackhammer," I said. 
 
"Aye," he said. 
 
"Are you taking it for another trial run?" I asked. 
 
"Aye," he said. 
 
"Would you like me to come along and give you a hand," I asked. 
 
"Gnay," he said, and started to pedal towards Greater Cawing. 
 
I wished he hadn't hurried away so, as I wanted to have a good look at 
the carriage. I'd got the impression that something was missing, but I 
couldn't say what it was. 
 
Isfrunt wasn't at home, so I carried on to the end of Spit Lane to see 
if he was with Grandma Gnutson. 
 
"Wognderful! Just whegn I gneed some assistagnce," she wheezed. "I've 
beegn rugngnigng up and dowgn these stairs all morgnigng, chagngigng 
the glow worms. You cogntignue with that and I'll make us a gnice 
refreshigng drignk." 
 
So I spent the gnext hour carrying used glow worms down to the cellar 
and recharged ones back up to the top of the lighthouse. 
 
Grandma Gnutson hadn't seen Isfrunt all morning, but she said, "It's 
gnearly gnoogn. Isfrugnt may be at the igngn." 
 
Isfrunt was at the Green Gnome, eating a ploughgnome's lunch - that's 
raw turnip with the mud left on. He was telling me about how Jumbo 
Butterpat had used his map as a beer mat and it had dissolved, when 
there was this terrific clattering and shouting on the road outside. 
We all rushed to the door to see what was going on. 
 
It was Gnat Tackhammer on his dogless carriage. He was careering down 
Ploughgnome's Lane at gninety leagues an hour, with his little legs 
whirling round like the sails on Uncle Dusty's old mill, the day that 
it fell down. 
 
"Stop pedalling, Mr. Tackhammer!" I shouted to him. 
 
"I can't!" he cried as he shot by. 
 
"Put your brakes on, Gnat!" yelled Jumbo Butterpat after him. 
 
Brakes! Of course! That was what the blocks were, that I removed from 
the dogless carriage. I should have realised after the first trial run.  

This time, as he couldn't use his feet to slow him down, Gnat was 
going fast enough to jump clear across the Dribble. And he would have 
too, if Silas Crawley hadn't been standing in the middle of the road 
down by the bridge. As it was, the dogless carriage came to stop when 
it hit the goblin and sent him flying. Old Creepy got across the river 
anyway, and he didn't have to wait for the Spratt's ferry. 
 
Sandday 2nd Deadembers 
 
I went down to Soggybottom Field today to see if the dam is holding 
back the Dribble. It is, but enough water is leaking through that we 
may have to rename the place "Soggybottom Pond". I wonder if we 
should take up goldfish farming? I shall suggest that to Father when 
I gnext see him. (He and my brothers took to their beds when we came 
home on Fireday and have been there ever since.) 
 
Mudday 3rd Deadembers 
 
Today, I hiked round to Three Mole Hill to visit my favourite sage. 
On the way I met two dwarves! You don't see many of them around here. 
They were surveying. One of them had one of those tripod things and 
the other had a stripy pole. 
 
"Hullo," I said, "what are you doing?" 
 
"I'm gazing at t'stars and 'e's opening barber's shop," replied the 
one with the tripod in a rather surly voice. 
 
That was silly, so I said, "Really, what are you surveying?" 
 
He bent his head back to his instrument and grunted, "Mind thy own 
business, lass." 
 
He was so rude! I turned and started to walk off, when the other one 
called, "Eh, lass. Be there anywhere we can get some grub? We ain't 
brought nowt with us." 
 
"There's the Green Gnome," I replied, pointing down to the village in 
the distance. "Make sure you try the scrumpy." 
 
Mistress Thyme was on her doorstep, sitting every bit as still as 
Gnoggin does when he is fishing. The difference between them is that 
the sage sits and thinks, but Gnoggin just sits. 
 
I sat myself down at her feet and said, "Tell me the meaning of life, 
oh sage." Which seemed a gnice respectful way to address her. She was 
silent for a very long time, then replied, "Life is a four-letter 
word". I thought about that very hard, then gave up and asked her if 
she could put it another way. She said, "You can put it any way you 
like". Then she went inside. 
 
I passed those dwarves again on my way back. They had fallen into a 
ditch by the side of the road and were lying there, bright green and 
moaning softly. 
 
Treesday 4th Deadembers 
 
I am making some proper bread at last! Mother always finds some excuse 
to stop me, but today she has gone round to Uncle Dusty's mill with a 
bag of corn. As she is going to wait for him to grind it, she won't be 
back before dark. 
 
I read the label on the Super Lift Off packet very carefully. It said 
lots about how marvellous it was, but gnothing about how to use it. So 
I put lots in to be on the safe side, made a gnice bubbly dough and 
put it in the oven to rise. I am sitting gnear it gnow, writing my 
diary while it rises. There are some interesting smells and gnoises 
coming from the oven. Fresh eggs would be lovely with hot gnew proper 
bread. I'll go and see if there are any. 
 
Woodensday 5th Deadembers 
 
Either Seamus Sosmall sold me the wrong stuff, or I used too much of 
it in the bread yesterday. While I was out at the bantam coop, the 
oven exploded. It blew the door right off and if Arback hadn't been 
there to catch it, that heavy iron door would have smashed the table. 
The gnoise brought my father and brothers out of their beds, which was 
a good thing, but they all got into a terrible mess when they came 
rushing into the kitchen. The dough was knee deep! It took ages to 
clear up, especially as Arback insisted on lying around moaning all 
the time. 
 
I thought about having another go this morning, using a bit less Super 
Lift Off this time, but until somegnome fixes the oven door we won't 
be doing any more baking. 
 
We haven't got any flour, anyway. Uncle Dusty's chickens surrounded 
Mother when she went over yesterday and stole her corn.  
 
Airsday 6th Deadembers 
 
Today I went through my old gnotebooks from the Institute of Gnome 
Economics, and found the work I did on Road Making and Bridge Building 
in the fifth year. I doesn't look too hard. With my skills and lots of 
willing hands, we could soon have a gnew bridge across the Dribble. 
 
I spent the aftergnoon drawing up the plans for a suspender bridge. 
Tomorrow I will check out Greater Cawing Rookery - I think there are 
enough big trees there to do the job - and the day after I will 
recruit my labour force. By the weekend, we should be almost finished. 
 
Fireday 7th Deadembers 
 
I was in the middle of counting the trees at Greater Cawing, when one 
of the rooks flopped down beside me. 
 
"'Ere," it cawed, "what you at, missus?" 
 
I explained about my plans for a suspender bridge. The rook was most 
unhelpful. 
 
"'Ang about," it cawed, "are you after chopping down our 'ouses so you 
can build this 'ere bridge." 
 
"Well, you'll be using the gnew bridge, just the same as everybody 
else, won't you?" I said. 
 
It cocked its head to one side and gave me a beady stare. "Like 'eck," 
it cawed. "You want a bridge, missus. You chop down your own 'ouse." 
 
Then it flew off. I can see I may have a little problem there. 
 
Stoneday 8th Deadembers 
 
I went into the village today to organise a bridge-building team. I 
started with Boney Spratt, and managed to catch him just as he was 
about to go off fishing. I told him my plans and pointed out that when 
the bridge was built, he wouldn't have to do any more ferrying - which 
he doesn't seem to like - but could concentrate on his fishing. 
 
"Gnow listen," says he, "if it weren't for the ferrying, there would 
hardly be gno fishing to do." 
 
"But, Mr. Spratt," I argued, "you hardly ever do any ferrying!" 
 
"Precisely!" he grinned, and went off with his gnets. 
 
I could see that there were dozens of people in the Green Gnome, so I 
went there gnext and called out, "Will anyone join my bridge team?" 
 
I got lots of volunteers, but when they discovered I meant build one, 
gnot play cards, they all went back to their beer. It seems the 
stranded travellers are all happy to stay where they are, scoffing 
Mrs. Butterpat's famous fish pies. (They are all businessgnomes, 
living on expenses and gnot in the least bit keen to get back to their 
offices.) There were a few willing villagers, but when Mrs. Butterpat 
wrote out a big gnotice saying "Gno Muddy Boots. Gno Bridge Builders", 
even they dropped out. 
 
I was going to try Mistress Farthing, but I couldn't get in her shop 
as it was packed with stranded travellers buying sweets and souvenirs; 
and Gnat Tackhammer was too busy banging out the dents in his dogless 
carriage to even listen to me. 
 
Sandday 9th Deadembers 
 
I went right round to Ridley's End today, to see if I could get any 
help there. What a wasted walk! Daisy looked blank, as usual, though 
she did brighten up at the mention of suspenders. "I could do with 
some of they," she said. "My stockings get all wrinkly." 
 
Armillaria Budblast started reminiscing about the old days, when 
Isfrunt Garden used to come over every evening to drink her mead. 
 
"Well, won't you be pleased when the gnew bridge is built?" I asked. 
 
"Gnot likely," he said. "I can drink it all myself as long as that old 
guzzler is stuck over there." 
 
I even showed my plans to Creepy Crawley. "Very gnice, dearie," he 
said, patting my on the head. "Gnow run along home, there's a good 
little gnome." Ooh! I hate being patted on the head. 
 
Mudday 10th Deadembers 
 
Seamus Sosmall is my last hope on this bridge-building project. He 
travels all the time, and should be willing to help. Perhaps he will 
know a spell for getting volunteers. But he's gnot around gnow, as 
usual, and gnognome knows when he'll be back. 
 
Treesday 11th Deadembers 
 
Creepy Crawley called at the farm today to deliver an invitation to 
Father - he insisted on giving it to him personally, and even risked 
his gnice gnew suit to go into the barn to give it to Father. (There 
are so many bantams gnowadays that there isn't enough room for them in 
the coop, and lots are roosting on the rafters in the barn. They have 
no consideration for anygnome walking past undergneath.) 
 
There will be a Mid-Winter do at the village hall, on the 21st 
Deadembers, and we are all invited. Well, two do's in one year! That's 
more than old Squire Gillpot did for the village in all his years, so 
perhaps there is something to be said for the missing Quickbuck and 
his goblin agent after all. At least, we think it is a party. The 
goblin described it as a "gnight we would gnever forget." 
 
Woodensday 12th Deadembers 
 
Mother sent me off to Doomladen to borrow a cup of flour from Great 
Aunt Halfyard, and as she was in a hurry for it, she told me to take 
the short cut through Darkwood. Somegnome had thoughtfully put a 
gnotice up at the entrance to the wood, warning of the dangers of 
eating horrible wild berries. Mind you, they couldn't spell. The 
gnotice said, "Beware of the grizzly beres". 
 
There was a rather gnasty old tramp in the woods, wearing a big 
scruffy fur coat. Mother has told me gnot to speak to strangers, so I 
tried to stay well away from him, but he kept pestering me. I heard 
him lumbering and grunting up the path behind me, so I walked faster 
to get ahead. Then he started to chase me, so I got ready and when he 
was really close, I jabbed back hard with my stick. That stopped him. 
He gave a sort of groan and fell over. I didn't look back, but hurried 
on to Doomladen. 
 
Great Aunt Halfyard was walking around in her back garden with a 
Y-shaped twig in her hands. I asked her what she was doing. 
 
"Dowsing," she said. "I done dropped a penny out here yestergnight, 
and this thingummyjig will find it for me." 
 
She wandered around a bit more, until suddenly the twig began to 
twitch up and down. "See! Aha!" she cried, scrabbled at the ground and 
uprooted a potato. 
 
"That's gnot a penny," I pointed out. 
 
"Gnever you gno mind, my lass," she said. "It'll do for my lunch. Gnow 
let's find one for you." 
 
She dowsed around some more until the twig-twitching set in again. She 
scrabbled at the soil and came up with a bone. 
 
"I can't stop for lunch anyway," I told her. Then I had a brilliant 
idea. "Aunt Aggie," I asked, "could you find a buried boat with that 
twig?" 
 
"Gnot if it were buried at sea," she said, "this thingummyjig does 
find water as well." 
 
Well, I told her that the one I was after was in Isfrunt's garden. She 
looked a bit doubtful about that, but said that if it was there I'd 
find it. So I went home with a dowsing rod. But gno flour. Great Aunt 
Halfyard had run out of that, and until the chickens leave Uncle 
Dusty's mill, gnognome else is going to get any. Uncle Dusty is 
stranded in the Mill, living off eggs. 
 
That old tramp was still prowling around in Darkwood, but he kept 
away from me this time. 
 
Airsday 13th Deadembers 
 
I did some dowsing at Dunrollin in the Dunes today. Arback came with 
me as he hadn't seen his brother in ages, so we took the cart. Flopsy 
enjoys pulling it, and if Arback had walked it would have taken till 
Stoneday to get there. Isfrunt was out beachcombing when we arrived. 
We could see him in the distance on the mud flats - the tide was right 
out. 
 
Arback stood on the top of a dune and waved a dried seaweed frond at 
Isfrunt, until the wind caught it and blew him over. Then he just sat 
and waited for Isfrunt to come back. 
 
I went all over the vegetable plot and found three turnips and a 
carrot, then I circled out from there. Just a few yards to the side, 
the hazel twig began to twitch like Flopsy's gnose at dinner time. I 
got my spade and started digging. Flopsy saw the fun and took off her 
harness so that she could come and help. 
 
I went down through the sand until the hole was gnearly waist deep, 
then hit harder stuff. At that point, Flopsy took over and burrowed 
away like anything. Suddenly the ground gave way, and Flopsy 
disappeared into a deep hole. There was some sort of cave down there. 
I thought it was an ancient well, because I could hear a splashing of 
water, and I was ever so worried about how to get Flopsy out. But I 
gneeded have worried. 
 
Five minutes later, Flopsy came bounding up from the beach carrying 
Isfrunt by the tunic. She dropped him down in front of Arback, then 
shook herself merrily and sat down on them both for a cuddle. Gosh she 
was wet! It seems that the hole leads out to the sea, and clever old 
Flopsy had found her way down there. And, of course, she knew that 
Arback wanted to see his brother so she brought him with her as she 
came back. 
 
Fireday 14th Deadembers 
 
Isfrunt has got his own private blow-hole. It's ever so pretty. I was 
down at Dunrollin at high tide this morning, and the sea was whooshing 
up through that hole I dug yesterday and sending a wonderful fountain 
of spray up into the air. When the sun shines, there is this lovely 
rainbow over Isfrunt's vegetable garden. He'll gnever have to worry 
about watering it in the summer! 
 
Isfrunt wasn't looking very happy about it, but I expect that he's 
disappointed that I didn't find the longboat. I was going to do some 
more dowsing, but I found that I had come all that way without my 
hazel twig! 
 
Instead, I decided to carry on and see Grandma Gnutson, and there she 
was, coming up from the Spit. Millie Watts, the lighthouse keeper, has 
returned from her sister's, and so Grandma can come back home again. 
 
I'm afraid the strain of looking after the light has told on her. She 
was babbling on about a gnew Gnorse invasion. 
 
"Igngrid," she said, "there were hugndreds of them, sailigng up the 
coast, armed to the teeth with spades and wheelbarrows. The ignvaders 
lagnded ogn the other side of the Dribble agnd have camped ign the 
dugnes below Ridley's End." 
 
I could see the Manor dunes from where we stood, but they were quite 
empty. "I can't see anygnome, Grandma," I said. 
 
"Ah, they're too cugngnigng to be seegn! But they're there." she 
cried. 
 
"There, there, yourself, Grandma," I said. "Gnorsegnomes don't bother 
me." 
 
"They will," she wailed, "We'll all be murdered ign our sleep!". 
 
"But they won't murder you," I told her. "After all, you are Gnorse as 
well, aren't you." 
 
"Agnd how will they kgnow that if I'm asleep?" she asked. 
 
"Leave them a message," I said shortly. Really, Grandma's obsession 
with Gnorsegnomes was getting a bit wearing. 
 
Anyway, that is why Grandma Gnutson gnow sleeps with a gnotice tied 
round her gneck. It says, "I'm a Gnorse gragngny." And she has been 
practising snoring in Gnorse, just for good measure. 
 
Stoneday 15th Deadembers 
 
I was over at Three Mole Hill today. The sage was having lunch when I 
got there - raw lentils and water! I said that it didn't look very 
tasty, and told her all about my favourite foods - dumplings, sticky 
buns, chocolate cake and big fat sausages. 
 
"A gnome is what she eats," she said, chewing a dried pea. I wonder if 
I should change my diet? 
 
Sandday 16th Deadembers 
 
Bacon and eggs and fried suet pudding for breakfast! Gosh I gneeded 
that. I had raw lentils for tea and for supper yesterday and could 
hardly sleep for hunger. I don't know how Rosemary manages! Perhaps 
you have to reach that stage a bit at a time. I shall start by giving 
up heavy things - like Mother's bread. 
 
Mudday 17th Deadembers 
 
I'd gone down to Mistress Farthing's shop today, delivering eggs, and 
I gnoticed Seamus Sosmall on the far side of the Dribble. Mr. Spratt 
was fishing, as usual, so I couldn't gnip across to talk to him, but I 
stood at the water's edge and shouted at Seamus. He couldn't seem to 
hear what I was saying, so I waved at him to stay there, then set off 
to hike round to join him. 
 
It's ever such a long way from Little Moaning up to Greater Cawing, 
over the footbridge and back down across Three Mole Hill. I was 
whacked out by the time I reached the other side of the Dribble. And I 
couldn't see Seamus Sosmall anywhere! Then I heard a little voice, 
carried across on the wind - and there was Seamus on the other side! 
 
I couldn't believe it. How could I have missed him on the way round? 
I'd just turned about to start the slog back when there was a sort of 
whooshing gnoise and the leprechaun was standing gnext to me. 
 
"Sure and don't disappear again, young gnome maid," he said. "There I 
was, over here, and yourself over there and me coming over to join you 
only I couldn't find me transporting stuff at all, at all. And when I 
did, begorra, you'd gone! Gnow here I am and here are you, and what 
was it you were wanting, to be sure?" 
 
So I told him my plans for a gnew bridge, but he just shook his head 
with a sad smile. "Sure and I'd like to help you," he said, "but you 
see, it's like this. With that there bridge gnot being here, a 
travelling salesgnome like myself does very gnicely buying things in 
Gnomebridge and selling them to those that can't get across to the 
town themselves. Gnow what would a bridge do for my business?" 
 
I could see his point. Then I had a brilliant idea. "We could make it 
a toll bridge." 
 
"Begorra! That we could," he replied, with a glitter in his eye. 
"We'll do it tomorrow! Gnow, would you like a lift home?" He reached 
for his transporting stuff, but I said I could do with a walk. 
(Actually, my feet were killing me, but I wanted to get home safely.) 
 
Treesday 18th Deadembers 
 
Seamus Sosmall's bridge was almost a success. I was a bit late getting 
down to the Dribble, as it had taken me a while to collect all my 
maps, plans and work schedules together. Anyway, when I got there, he 
had finished it already. 
 
"Coo, that was quick, Mr. Sosmall!" I said. "Is it safe?" 
 
"Sure and begorra! Gnow there's a thing to ask! Just you watch me 
gnow." He stomped off to the middle of the bridge and jumped up and 
down like anything. The bridge didn't even wobble. That surprised me, 
because it didn't look that strong. It was straight and flat, but very 
thin like a sheet, and it didn't have any suspenders. I wanted to put 
some on, but Seamus was keen to get some customers and marched off to 
the Green Gnome before I could stop him. 
 
The stranded travellers were still having their breakfast - fried 
fish! - and didn't really want to know about crossing the Dribble, but 
Seamus eventually got them moving. 
 
Seamus collected their tolls ( I'm sure I heard him mutter "Well 
that's paid for the starch"), and sent them off all together. 
Unfortunately, there was a sudden shower when they were about half way 
across. The bridge softened in the rain and collapsed into the 
Dribble. It was just as well that Boney Spratt was fishing just 
down river. He caught the travellers in his nets and towed them over 
to the other side. 
 
And do you know, while Boney Spratt was doing that, his wife came up 
and made us pay the ferrying fees! And that was more than we had 
charged in tolls. 
 
I've gone off bridges. 
 
Woodensday 19th Deadembers 
 
It was pouring with rain today, and as I couldn't find anything else 
to do, I had a good look at the invitation to the Mid-Winter party. It 
was written in the same fancy lettering as the last - and there is 
more fancy writing in the small print on this one. 
 
"Whereas under the provisions laid out in Section 97 Sub-Section 24a 
of the Land Registration Act Jasper Quickbuck has with due formality 
made claims to the land and the easements rights and privileges 
entailed therein of the Dribble Valley and in default of contrary 
representation thereto title to the aforesaid property has been 
granted to the above mentioned Jasper Quickbuck and gnoting that all 
prior claims to ownership are thereby extinguished the recipient of 
this missive is hereby given gnotice of termination of right of 
residency effective from 21st Deadembers gnext and that vacation of 
properties on that date shall be deemed to signify unqualified 
acceptance of this gnotification." 
 
Phew! It took ages to copy that lot out. I think it means we've got to 
bring our own beer. 
 
Airsday 20th Deadembers 
 
I took myself over to see the sage this aftergnoon, to see if she 
could make head or tail of that invitation. She studied it very 
carefully, and eventually said, "If the writing is small, then so 
must be the quill." 
 
"Yes, but what does it mean?" I said, getting a bit fed up with her 
gnomic utterances. 
 
"Bring your own beer?" she suggested. 

Hmm! She may be a sage, but she doesn't know her onions. And I think 
it was it was most rude of her to say she would never see me again, 
just because I laughed when I noticed that she was holding the 
invitation upside down. 

I shall just have to wait until tomorrow to find out what the party 
is all about. 
 
Fireday 21st Deadembers 
 
Oh! That gnasty, mean, sneaky, rat! That city-slicker! That underhand, 
unprincipled land-grabber, Jasper Quickbuck! Him and his creepy 
goblin, Crawley! I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't seen it with 
my own eyes. 
 
There we all were, the Bottomlows, Halfyards, Gardens, Butterpats, 
Tackhammers, Spratts and Downtroddens; Grandma Gnutson, Millie Watts, 
and Mistress Farthing. All standing around in the village hall 
wondering whether we had come to the right place and where the food 
and drink had got to - it certainly hadn't come from the manor, gnor 
had the Butterpats been hired, and Cousin Daisy didn't know anything 
about outside caterers. Then the doors swung open and in walked 
Crawley, grinning all over his evil face. 
 
"Well I am glad you all came," he smirked. 
 
"I wouldn't call this a party!" shouted Isfrunt Garden from the back. 
 
"Gnor would I," agreed Arback Garden from the front. 
 
"I gnever said it would be," retorted Crawley. "If you have read your 
gnotices properly, you will know perfectly well what this is. By 
coming here you have vacated your properties, and by vacating your 
properties on this day, you have agreed to the eviction gnotices that 
I served on you last week." 
 
There was pandemonium. I think that's the word. Certainly, Mrs. 
Butterpat had her pan out and was about to go at him like a demon when 
she gnoticed that the goblin had company. Two whacking great trolls 
had squeezed themselves in through the double doors and stood 
slouching against the roof. At a sign from Crawley they bellowed 
"QUIET!" so loudly that Mistress Farthing was blown over by the blast. 
 
"It's your own fault," the goblin went on. "you should have registered 
your land claims when you had the chance. Squire Quickbuck gave you 
due gnotice of that too. But it's too late gnow. You will have to 
leave. The Dribble Valley is going to be turned into an Yuppie Homes 
development, featuring a Gnorsegnome-style yacht marina." 
 
Gnorsegnomes! I turned to Grandma Gnutson. Was she involved? 
 
"Don't look at me like that," she said, without a trace of an accent, 
"I've just changed my gname back to Bottomlow." 
 
Well, so that's where we are gnow. Creepy Crawley and his trolls have 
gone, Arback and Isfrunt are still looking for the beer, everybody 
else has gone to the Green Gnome to think what to do, or whether to do 
anything at all, and I'm writing up my diary because I have a feeling 
there's gnot going to be much time for that in the gnext few days. 

The other gnomes may be a pathetic lot, but the Bottomlows have been 
tenants at Gnettlefield for generations and nobody is going to evict 
us without a protest from me. I've already started a protest petition 
for Great Aunt Halfyard, our local councillor, to present. I'll stop 
Jasper Quickbuck's plans, or my name's not Ingrid Bottomlow! 
 