

              AEON DESIGN. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
              ---------------------------------------- 

                              OUTLINE 
                              -------

Aeon combines the fast action and simple joystick control of arcade 
games with the rich puzzles and scenery of fantasy adventures. 

DISPLAY: Aeon has two displays, for action and for possessions.
* Action display. Aeon has an aerial 3D view, similar to "Double 
  Dragon", with large sprites (hopefully 48 by 16) and detailed, 
  animated backgrounds. The joystick moves the player about and 
  buttons A and B use whatever is in his left and right hand.  
* The possessions display shows all your belongings, and action 
  pauses until you return to the game. The joystick moves a 
  pointer about among them, and a window at the top left shows an 
  enlarged view of whichever object it points at. 

PLOT SUMMARY. Climb the mountain to regain the head dragon's crown. 
The mountain has nine levels, each starting on a mountainside ledge 
with a shop run by a giant, neutral bird; continuing through many 
passages defended by trolls etc; and ending by confronting the 
dragon lord of the level. Defeat the nineth dragon to win. 

The map is partly fixed and partly random, with four alternative 
designs for each level, some random puzzles and a lot of random 
objects and monsters. This means that the game will be different 
each time - and people will want to play again even when they've 
completed it once.

Level themes are based around the four alchemical elements, as 
appropriate for the dragon in charge: 
9: Fire. Maze of Fire: Master Dragon's Realm. 
8: Air. Mist and Smoke. 
7: Water. Flooded Tunnels: Underwater Travel, Weed, Fish. 
6: Earth. Necropolis. 
5: Fire. Volcanic Crater, Fire Crevasses. 
4: Air. Ventillation, Wind Machinery, Flags.  
3: Water. Fish Lakes, Canals, Waterfalls. 
2: Earth. Underground Farms: Mushrooms, Animal Pens, Mines.   
1: Fire. Entrance Halls: Torches, Flame Jets. 

COMMUNICATION BY PICTURES. Aeon is an adventure entirely without 
words; graphic sequences replace all messages. 
* When an object is collected, or when an interesting static 
  object (scenery) is approached, a large picture of it will be 
  displayed for a few seconds. This picture will often be labelled 
  graphically. For example, a potion of strength might have a 
  picture of a muscled arm, a fire resistance potion might have a 
  flame crossed out. Tunes/sound effects and animation may be also 
  be useful to emphasise the point.
* Suppose a creature wants something - for example a troll demanding 
  payment for crossing a troll bridge. A thought bubble will appear 
  above the troll when the player approaches - in cartoon fashion - 
  showing what is required.

                              DETAILS 
                              -------

COMBAT 

To fight, hold a weapon and push the button for that hand. A 
long-range weapon (bow, wand etc) acts machine-gun fashion, but 
with only one missile in flight at once; a hand weapon (sword, 
spear etc) goes through an appropriate stabbing or slashing 
sequence; and a shield moves up/down to possibly block blows. 

Aeon is not like those platform games where a single injury is 
fatal; damage is subtracted from health instead, and death 
results when this reaches zero. Even walking unprotected across 
lava would take a few frames to kill you. 


TELEPORT SYSTEMS 

Rapid transport around a level is by teleport discs. Stand       ADVENTURES 
         for 
  Atari ST and XL/XE 
Amstrad CPC,PCW,+3,PC 
Apple II and Macintosh 
 BBC 48K+ and Master
Commodore 64 and Amiga 
       IBM PC 
    MSX, Spectrum 


      LANCELOT
 released September 

   INGRID'S BACK
  released October 

  16-bit: #19.95 
   8-bit: #14.95 
unique graphics without the cost being too great. 


BACKGROUND OBJECTS. All the sprites are needed for creatures, so 
static objects are drawn onto the background. This includes the 
magic itemscs. 

