

            AEON OBSTACLES. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
            ------------------------------------------- 

GENERAL NOTES 

Aeon is limited in its number of sprites, and these are basically 
reserved for creatures and/or missiles. Obstacles therefore use 
background graphics and will normally be set in the floor or walls 
so that creatures will never have to pass behind them. 

There are two major exceptions. One is very small obstacles (e.g 
falling missiles). The second uses the fact that extra sprites can 
be made available on alternate frames - they will flicker but this 
does not matter for translucent foreground obstacles such as 
flames or jets of freezing air. 

USES OF OBSTACLES 

A major feature of Aeon is that objects interect wherever possible. 
It is not feasible to completely list such effects without the 
design becoming hopelessly unwieldy, but here are some examples. 

On fire levels, there will be gratings in the floor through which 
flames occasionally emerge. The idea is to work out the pattern 
involved and cross the gratings between bursts of fire, but if you 
leave things on the grating then the following might happen.. 
 Inflamable object (eg scroll, chest): burns, leaving any contents; 
 Fireball wand: recharged;  Food: cooked; Torch: lit; 
 Ice: melted, leaving any contents.

On water levels, rain drips down. It fills any bottle below, and 
can be used to water plants, or thrown as a weapon (if acid rain). 
Acid water corodes metal, destroying locks etc. 

ON GROUND 

Trigger tiles: put enough weight on one of these to open/close 
door, release monster, fire missile from side or roof, remove 
section of floor etc. 
 
Rivers of Water/Lava/Mud: cross when frozen or bridged. 

Canyons: cross when bridged. 

Gratings: emit jets of fire/wind in a pattern.  

Trapdoor: return you/monster to previous level. 

Areas of mist/grass/mud which you wade slowly through - feet 
invisible. They act to slow movement and hence pursuit, and hide 
things on the ground. 

Teleport discs (see elsewhere). 





ON WALL 

Triggers: press..

Doors of Rock/Ice/Fire which block access unless removed (e.g by 
trigger, or opposing magic). 
 
Waterfall/Fog which hides doorway.  

Bells to ring. Correct tune pacifies monster. 

Torches to light place; to take, move up to one. 

Doors to: open with key; choose correct one of; wedge shut by 
putting object on ground; remotely opened (eg from balcony or 
defensible place); 

Gargoyles/statues which come to life. 

Walls which hide doors (just walk through). 

Shiny walls which reflect magic back. 

Door which is really a mouth (and v.v). 

Level changes (e.g balconies) to be crossed by e.g beanstalk. 
