        AEON DESIGN OUTLINE. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
        ------------------------------------------------ 

Aeon combines the fast action and simple joystick control of arcade 
games with the rich puzzles and scenery of fantasy adventures. 


DISPLAY & CONTROLS. Aeon has two displays, for action and for your 
possessions. Press the select button to switch between them: 

1. Action display. Aeon has an aerial 3D view, similar to "Double 
Dragon", with large sprites (hopefully 48 by 16) and detailed, 
animated backgrounds.

The joystick moves the player about and buttons A and B use whatever 
is in his left and right hand respectively. 

Walk over things to pick them up; walk into things to push them; 
press the button of a hand holding a weapon to fight; etc. 

2. The possessions display shows all your possessions, and action 
pauses until you return to the game. The joystick moves a pointer 
about among them, and a window at the top left shows an enlarged 
view ofwhichever object it points at. 

To hold an object, move the pointer over it and press button A or B 
to hold it in the corresponding hand. To give, eat or drop something, 
move the pointer to the icons at the bottom of the screen and again 
press button A or B. 

Restart (on either display) shows an 8 letter code equivalent to a 
SAVE position. Confirm your decision (A is always yes, and B no) if 
you want to start a new game. On starting, in place of choosing a 
new character you can choose to enter a previous SAVE code. 


SUGGESTED START SEQUENCE: 
* Title screen with castle: dragon flies from right; breathes fire 
  on castle and dives into smoke; turns and flies right with 
  something glinting in its talons; castle burns. 
* Close-up of crown held by dragon. 
* Long shot of dragon flying into cave at top of mountain, hero 
  meanwhile shakes fist and runs to and enters a lower cave. 
* Selection screen. Use joystick to select between knight, wizard, 
  jester and empty box with XXXXXXXX (for restore). 
* Game starts, with you controlling your chosen character. 


PLOT SUMMARY. Climb the mountain to regain the head dragon's crown. 
The mountain has nine levels, each starting on a mountainside ledge 
with a shop run by a giant, neutral bird; continuing through many 
passages defended by trolls etc; and ending by confronting the 
dragon lord of the level. Defeat the nineth dragon to win. 

The map is partly fixed and partly random, with four alternative 
designs for each level, some random city was splendidly decorated. But the dragons 
do not appreciate architecture and nowadays there is little effort 
for any work except mining. 

The only export is magic gems, but major imports are more varied. 

Some food has to be imported to supplement that grown underground 
(fungi,roots,garbage worms,fish etc) and to provide occasional 
luxuries for the trolls. The dragons consume large numbers of live 
animals too. 

Life expectancy is low, so slaves and criminals are bought to keep 
up on, Wind Machinery, Flags.  
3: Water. Fish Lakes, Canals, Waterfalls. 
2: Earth. Underground Farms: Mushrooms, Animal Pens, Mines.   
1: Fire. Entrance Halls: Torches, Flame Jets. 

The player rises in experience level and gains magic items and 
armour/weapons to complete the game. Excess items can be sold, and 
required ones bought, at the shops owned by the bird people.


OBSTACLES. Creatures include humanoids, birds, dragons, and other 
suitable cave inhabitants. Most monsters will look left or right 
and will mainly approach horizontally. "Racetracks" will be used so 
monsters can move purposefully, though some will be random to avoid 
too much regularity. They will become harder to defeat, and will use 
more magic, as the mountain is ascended. Magic items and better 
armour/weapons will be available to assist the player.

There will also be large, fixed 'guardians' which will be partly 
animated. e.g. for a dragon, only the head might move. Physical 
obstacles, such as crevices, trapdoors and lava pools will restrict 
the motion of the player and monsters. And there will also be 
adventure-type puzzles, which will be kept simple at first as some 
players may never have played a real adventure game. 


COMMUNICATION BY PICTURES. Aeon is an adventure entirely without 
words. Graphic sequences replace all messages. For example:

* When an object is collected, or when an interesting static 
  object (scenery) is approached, a large picture of it will be 
  displayed for a few seconds. This picture will often be labelled 
  graphically. For example, a potion of strength might have a 
  picture of a muscled arm, a fire resistance potion might have a 
  flame crossed out. Tunes/sound effects and animation may be also 
  be useful to emphasise the point.

* Suppose a creature wants something - for example a troll demanding 
  payment for crossing a troll bridge. A thought bubble will appear 
  above the troll when the player approaches - in cartoon fashion - 
  showing what is required.


EXAMPLE PUZZLES: 

* A beanstalk which must be watered. When it has grown sufficiently, 
  the player can climb it to gain access to an exit high up in the 
  wall. A thought bubble above the plant might show a picture of a 
  watering can, or perhaps a large water drop.

* A wand which when waved at a chasm creates a bridge across it. 
  The wand might be marked with a picture of a bridge. 

* An animal which is hungry: it is hostile until given food.

* A room totally enclosed  escape. Opening the appropriate pit in the floor would dispose of 
  them neatly.

* Some rooms will contain balconies or ledges. This gives the 
  potential for the player to sneak up above a guardian, and push a 
  pile of rocks down on top of them.

* Similarly, there might be a sniper on a balcony. Any attempt to 
  cross the room they're defending would result in a hail of arrows. 
  Find another route to the balcony first to scare off the sniper.

* When escaping from a lair, by means of   escape. Opening the appropriate pit in the floor would dispose of 
  them neatly.

* Some rooms will contain balconies or ledges. This gives the 
  potential for the player to sneak up above a guardian, and push a 
  pile of rocks down on top of them.

* Similarly, there might be a sniper on a balcony. Any attempt to 
  cross the room they're defending would result in a hail of arrows. 
  Find another route to the balcony first to scare off the sniper.

* When escaping from a lair, by means of a rope bridge, the 
  bridge could be cut to prevent pursuit.

* A statue with a missing eye. When it is approached, a close-up 
  is shown of the head. A gem-shaped eye is clearly missing. If the 
  player approaches with the gem in hand, and uses it, the statue 
  changes shape and releases the sword that it clasps.

* A phoenix egg could be found in a firey area. If this is placed 
  in a suitable nearby nest, the phoenix is reborn in a blaze of 
  fire. A suitable reward would be given to the player.


SAVE/RESTORE. Pressing RESTART displays an 8 letter code for the 
current position, and you have the option to quit. 

If you do so, the hero is shown returning to the shop at the start 
of the current level. All his 'ordinary' possessions are sold (a 
shopkeeper wheels on a barrow-load of money & exchanges it for 
the hero's goods). Only special items are recorded in the save 
code, but others may be repurchased when the game is next played.

The 8 letter code is left displayed, for you to write down and enter 
when the game is next run, to restore the position and continue. 
