         AEON SAVE/RESTORE. COPYRIGHT (C) 1988. LEVEL 9 
         ---------------------------------------------- 

Aeon is intended for an entirely ROM-based micro, without disc or 
tape on which to store a saved position. Accordingly, the only way 
to save a position seems to be to display some data on the screen, 
for the player to write down and re-enter next game. 

This strategy severely restricts the amount of information that we 
can reasonably save. It is not practical to save the location of 
every object, for example. So the following strategies are used to 
reduce the amount of data to what will fit in 8 letters:
1) Return the player to the beginning of the current mountain level, 
   so that we don't need his position. 
2) Put a shop there, so that his ordinary possessions can be sold. 
   We just store his amount of gold and let him buy back anything 
   he needs next game. 
3) For each special object, a single bit says if it's carried. 
4) The map is semi-random, but we need only store the random number 
   seed used to build the current level. 
5) Code the amount of gold on a log scale, so that small numbers 
   are held accurately and large numbers can also be stored without 
   needing too many bits. 
6) Don't store health, or experience within level. Reset them to 
   100% and 0 respectively. 


CODE DETAILS. The 8 letter code is made up as follows (using upper 
case letters only): 
* Character Level (4 bits)
* Gold (8 bits)
* Level of Mountain (4 bits)
* Randomstand there until you do something to 
trigger them off - but in "Ingrid's Back" it's actually fun to 
follow the other gnomes and watch as they go about their lives. 


                  Level 9 are on stand 3049

ion. Accordingly, the only way 
to save a position seems to be to display some data on the screen, 
for the player to write down and re-enter next game. 

This strategy severely restricts the amount of information that we 
can reasonably save. It is not practical to save the location tton except RESTART (which restarts) to select the current letter. 
When the 8 letters have been chosen, the game checks if they are a 
valid code and, if so, you start at the saved position. (If invalid, 
a head shakes "NO" and you get to try again)
